A Humanities Colloquium: From Homer to Garcia Marquez (110440)
 Louis Menand Stephen Greenblatt Jill Lepore
Davíd L. Carrasco Jay Harris
Alison Simmons
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions:
Instructor
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
T 1000 AM - 1129 AM 90
2,500 years of essential works, taught by six professors. Humanities 10a includes works by Homer, Plato, Aristotle, Sophocles, Dante, Shakespeare, Descartes, Austen, Douglass, and Garcia Marquez, as well as the Hebrew Bible, the New Testament, and the Declaration of Independence. One 90-minute lecture plus a 90-minute discussion seminar led by the professors every week. Students also receive instruction in critical writing one hour a week, in writing labs and individual conferences. Students also have opportunities to visit cultural venues and attend musical and theatrical events in Cambridge or Boston.
Course Notes: The course is open only to freshmen. Students who complete Humanities 10a meet the General Education requirement in Aesthetic and Interpretive
Understanding. Students who take both Humanities 10a and Humanities 10b fulfill the General Education requirements for Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding and Culture and Belief as well as the College Writing requirement. This is the only course outside of Expository Writing that satisfies the College Writing requirement. No auditors. The course may not be taken Pass/Fail.
Class Notes: The course has a two-step lottery and application process. This includes a mandatory first meeting for all interested students on Thursday, August 31, from 10:00-11:29am, location TBA. See the course website for
Additional Course Attributes:
Humanities 10B
full details: https://canvas.harvard.edu/courses/26951
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  FAS: General Education
 Culture and Belief
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS: General Education
 Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanitie