Advanced Italian I: Oral Expression and Performance (116233)
Elvira G. DiFabio
2018 Spring (4 Credits) Schedule: Instructor Permissions: Instructor Enrollment Cap:
TR 0100 PM - 0229 PM n/a
Ciak, si parla! Students develop oral expression and communication skills through the close reading of texts that are meant for performance, such as plays, film scripts, poetry, and games. Variation in diction and presentation techniques culminates in the adaptation and production of one or more of these texts for a public performance at the end of the term. Consult course website for current semester topics.
Conducted in Italian. May not be taken Pass/Fail, but may be taken Sat/Unsat by GSAS students. Appropriate for concentrators electing the Italian Studies or Romance Studies track. Not open to auditors. This course is taught by members of the Department.
A score of 681-720 on the SAT II or the Harvard Placement Test, or a score of 5 on the Italian AP exam; Italian 30, 35 or 36; equivalent preparation; or permission of course head.
Course Notes:
Recommended Prep:
Additional Course Attributes:
Italian 4Advanced Italian I: Oral Expression and Performance (116233)
Elvira G. DiFabio
2017 Fall (4 Credits) Schedule: Instructor Permissions: Instructor Enrollment Cap:
TR 0100 PM - 0229 PM 12
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  HCOL: Foreign Lang Citation
 Italian
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanities
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  FAS: Meets Foreign Lang Req
 Italian
             Ciak, si parla! Students develop oral expression and communication skills through the close reading of texts that are meant for performance, such as plays, film scripts, poetry, and games. Variation in diction and presentation techniques culminates in the adaptation and production of one or more of these texts for a public performance at the end of the term. Consult course website for current semester topics.
Course Notes: Conducted in Italian. May not be taken Pass/Fail, but may be taken Sat/Unsat by GSAS students. Appropriate for concentrators electing the
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Italian Studies or Romance Studies track. Not open to auditors. This course is taught by members of the Department.
A score of 681-720 on the SAT II or the Harvard Placement Test, or a score of 5 on the Italian AP exam; Italian 30, 35 or 36; equivalent preparation; or permission of course head.
Recommended Prep:
Additional Course Attributes:
Italian 5