Aesthetic & Interpretive 13 Section: LEC Rx: Arts for Global Health (123834)
Doris Sommer
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: None
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
W 0200 PM - 0359 PM n/a
Technical remedies alone seldom address the complex challenges of global health. Fear or humiliation may interfere with diagnosis and available treatments. Stigma or ignorance of causes and cures can create escalating epidemics. So innovative health providers have learned to rely on creative interventions through the arts and, by extension, through creative education.Inspired by The Global Health Education and Learning Incubator at Harvard University, our course considers the dynamic between health conditions and conditions for health, as well as responses to those conditions, both medical and non-medical. Resources for significant non-medical responses often come from cultural interventions, including traditional and contemporary arts. The interconnectedness of
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
conditions and the far-reaching effects of creative responses are explored through cases of arts intervention in health care and through theories of why art works. What is therapeutic about making art and about thinking through the process? Readings and discussion engage a tradition of aesthetic philosophy that begins in the European Enlightenment to promote broad-based art-making as a response to conflict (Schiller) and to stimulate freedom of thought by starting with beauty (Kant). Surprising expectations and inviting us to think about the effects, "Rx: Arts for Global Health" offers basic training in the enlightened tradition of aesthetic judgment while it tracks some cases of arts that support global health.In lectures by instructors and guest speakers, the course considers how change and growth in global health can benefit from an aesthetic approach to technical and social challenges. Theoretical readings (Plato, Aristotle, Kant, Arendt, Schiller, Dewey, Freire, Gramsci, Rancière, Mockus, Boal, Nussbaum, inter alia) accompany concrete cases of treating malaria, tuberculosis, HIV, depression. The final project will be a "case study," of a particular health challenge, including a proposal for a creative intervention.
Additional Course Attributes:
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: General Education
 Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding
  FAS: Core Curriculum
 Literature and Arts C
  HCOL: Foreign Lang Citation
 Spanish
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Student