Aesthetic & Interpretive 57 Section: LEC American Dreams from Scarface to Easy Rider (109501)
Eric Rentschler
2017 Fall (4 Credits) Schedule: MW 1000 AM - 1059 AM Instructor Permissions: Instructor Enrollment Cap: 218
This class familiarizes students with popular films produced during crucial junctures in the modern history of the United States, from the Great Depression and World War II through the Cold War, McCarthy era, and the 1960s. More specifically, we will study how Hollywood's dream factory responded to dramatic challenges that states of crisis and emergency posed to the founding ideals of our democracy. We will look at the wide range of functions that commercial fantasy productions assumed, how they at times legitimated and bolstered the status quo, but at others also interrogated, exposed, and even indicted social inequity. Course films provide a representative sampling of classical American features from 1932 to 1969, including Scarface, It Happened One Night, The Wizard of Oz, Gone with the Wind, Citizen Kane, Casablanca, High Noon, The Invasion of the Body Snatchers, The Manchurian Candidate, and Easy Rider.
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
Additional Course Attributes:
See syllabus for information on film screenings. This course, when taken for a letter grade, meets the General Education requirement for Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding or Culture and Belief, but not both. This course fulfills the requirement that one of the eight General Education courses also engage substantially with Study of the Past.
If student interest exceeds the course limit, a random lottery will be conducted. To enter the lottery, you must add the course to the Study Card and explicitly request enrollment permission when prompted. Instructor permission will be granted to only those admitted by the lottery; all students will be notified of their results. See the course website for more details.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: General Education
 Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding
  FAS: General Education
 Culture and Belief
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  FAS: Core Curriculum
 Historical Study B
  FAS: Core Curriculum
 Literature and Arts B
  FAS: General Education
 Study of the Past
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
                   60 Section: LE