Anthropology 2626
Research Design/Proposal Writing (116522)
John Comaroff Jean Comaroff
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Graduate Students
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Social Sciences
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
         HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
2017 Fall (4 Credits) Schedule: T 0500 PM - 0759 PM Instructor Permissions: Instructor Enrollment Cap: n/a
This course is a practicum designed to help students craft effective research and grant proposals, learn how to constructively critique others' proposals, and develop enduring collaborative relationships. Many writing problems are fundamentally thinking and design problems. For this reason, conceptual structure, project design, and methodological choices will occupy a great deal of our time. The first half of the semester will focus on Wenner- Gren-type proposals, the second half on proposals for the National Science Foundation and similar funders.
By permission only. The class is open to third year (or higher) social anthropology students who have done most of the background reading for a major research project and are actively working on a formal research proposal, of which they have a draft in hand. For most students, this will be a proposal for their PhD dissertation research. Students in their second year may be eligible to take the course in certain circumstances.
This course is also offered through the Department of African and African American Studies as Aframer 262. Credit may be earned for either Anth 2626 or Aframer 262, but not both.
By permission only. The class is open to third year (or higher) social anthropology students who have done most of the background reading for a major research project and are actively working on a formal research proposal, of which they have a draft in hand. For most students, this will be a proposal for their PhD dissertation research. Students in their second year may be eligible to take the course in certain circumstances.
This course is also offered through the Department of African and African American Studies as Aframer 262. Credit may be earned for either Anth 2626 or Aframer 262, but not both.
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
Additional Course Attributes:
Anthropology 262