Anthropology 1040
Origins of the Food We Eat (109581)
Richard Meadow
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions:
Instructor
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
MW 1100 AM - 1159 AM 12
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
The most significant lifestyle revolution in the human past was the change from hunting and gathering to agriculture and pastoralism. That shift in the subsistence base has facilitated, and has been facilitated by, increasing populations and a restructuring of social and economic relations over the past 10,000 years. Focusing on key geographic areas and transformative time periods, we discuss how this process began by focusing on the domestication of what have become the staples and major condiments of modern diets around the world. We also consider the spread and adoption of domestic plants and animals across the Eastern and Western Hemispheres as well as the globalization of food that began at the end of the 15th century CE with the Columbian Exchange.
To study the processes of domestication and subsequent exploitation of domestic plants and animals requires a multi-disciplinary approach. Thus we sample contributions from a wide range of fields including archaeology, anthropology, history, linguistics, botany, zoology, genetics, biogeochemistry, climatology, geomorphology, oceanography, demography, and nutritional science. Fundamental, however, are archaeological excavations, which provide the material remains necessary for specialized analyses as well as the temporal and social contexts needed for their interpretation.
The course is discussion-based, with background material, concepts, and topics introduced by the instructor. Geographical focus is on West, South, and East Asia, Mesoamerica, and the Andean region, with other areas (Europe, Central Asia, Africa, New Guinea, Oceania, Amazonia, and North America) touched upon for specific foods. Readings are in the primary and secondary literature, focusing on key plants, animals, analytical methods, and interpretative debates. Evaluation is based on completing assigned readings before each class, participating in class discussion, and submitting one written assignment by Friday afternoon of each week on a topic to be specified. Graduate students are required to submit a short tightly focused research paper before the end of the semester.
Course Notes:
Additional Course Attributes:
Anthropology 106