Applied Physics 298R
Frontier Topics in Molecular Biology (144326)
Lene Hau
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Instructor
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
TR 1000 AM - 1129 AM n/a
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Graduate Students
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Science & Engineering & Applied Science
         Students are active participants and presenters in the class, and we will pick topics in molecular biology and single bio-molecule detection and imaging, fields that have seen an explosive development in recent years. Topics can include protein structure and expression, the central dogma of molecular biology, DNA-polymerase and ribosomes, gene engineering, PCR, transformation of cells, CRISPR, super-resolution imaging with fused fluorescent proteins,
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
and nano-pores/ion-channels. The class is primarily aimed at first year graduate students and will be intense and highly interactive so the student number will be limited. If you are interested in this class, please E-mail a brief description of your interests, program of study, year, and research group if applicable to hau@g.harvard.edu (use subject line: AP298r).
 Course Notes:
The class will be divided into teams and each team will spend 4 weeks investigating a current research problem posed by a faculty member. This will entail reading and lab work and will be followed by a presentation to the full class. Each team will work on 3 problems through the term. Suitable for graduate students with undergraduate concentrations in chemistry, engineering, or physics having present or potential research interests in this field. The course will provide an introduction to current research problems as well as the methodology of research and presentation. A final paper based on one theme will also be required. Taught by faculty from Chemistry, Physics, and the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences who are associated with Harvard's Materials Research Science and Engineering Center.
Additional Course Attributes:
Applied Physics 299