Beginning Portuguese for Spanish Speakers II: More SAMBA, less Salsa! (110641)
Viviane Gontijo
2018 Spring (4 Credits) Schedule: MTWR 1100 AM - 1159 AM Instructor Permissions: None Enrollment Cap: n/a
Guides students to continue the work of confronting features of the Portuguese phonological system that are most challenging for Spanish speakers. It helps solidify the student's foundation in Brazilian Portuguese, and pushes them to go deeper by engaging with literary readings, examining unique cultural aspects in addition to practical points of the language. Students will continue to experience contextualized Lusophone culture through music, film, literature, social media, and Teletandem, a weekly online interaction with college students in Brazil, unique to the Portuguese Program.
Course Notes:
Recommended Prep: Additional Course Attributes:
Portuguese 11S
Conducted in Portuguese. May not be taken Pass/Fail, but may be taken Sat/Unsat by GSAS students. Not open to auditors. This course is taught by members of the Department.
Prerequisite: PORTUG 10s OR permission of Course Head.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  FAS: Meets Foreign Lang Req
 PortuguesBeginning Portuguese for Spanish Speakers II: More SAMBA, less Salsa! (110641)
Viviane Gontijo
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: None HARVARD UNIVERSITY
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
MTWR 0900 AM - 0959 AM n/a
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Guides students to continue the work of confronting features of the Portuguese phonological system that are most challenging for Spanish speakers. It helps solidify the student's foundation in Brazilian Portuguese, and pushes them to go deeper by engaging with literary readings, examining unique cultural aspects in addition to practical points of the language. Students will continue to experience contextualized Lusophone culture through music, film, literature, social media, and Teletandem, a weekly online interaction with college students in Brazil, unique to the Portuguese Program.
Course Notes:
Recommended Prep: Additional Course Attributes:
Portuguese 1