Chemical and Physical Biology 99B
Laboratory Research for Honors Thesis (159732)
Dominic Mao
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Instructor
Schedule: TBD Enrollment Cap: 30
Limited to students writing a thesis in CPB. Students are required to submit a written proposal to the CPB undergraduate office in the summer for review by the Board of Tutors in Biochemical Sciences for enrollment that fall. Only those students whose thesis proposals are approved are eligible to enroll. Ordinarily may not be taken as a fifth course. Students must complete both terms of this course (parts A and B) within the same academic year in order to receive credit. Students must complete basic laboratory safety training and other safety training required by the host lab prior to starting work."
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  Full Year Course
 Indivisible Course
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Science & Engineering & Applied Science
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
           Laboratory research in topics related to the CPB concentration, culminating in an undergraduate thesis submitted to the CPB undergraduate office for review by members of the Board of Tutors in Biochemical Sciences and the greater Boston research community. The course includes a series of workshops designed to help prepare students for the process of writing their thesis.
Course Notes:
Limited to students writing a thesis in CPB. Students are required to submit a written proposal to the CPB undergraduate office in the summer for review by the Board of Tutors in Biochemical Sciences for enrollment that fall. Only those students whose thesis proposals are approved are eligible to enroll. Ordinarily may not be taken as a fifth course. Students must complete both
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Additional Course Attributes:
terms of this course (parts A and B) within the same academic year in order to receive credit. Students must complete basic laboratory safety training and other safety training required by the host lab prior to starting work."
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
      HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Chemical Biology Subject: Chemical Biology
Chemical Biology 300HF