Chemical Bonding, Energy, and Reactivity: An Introduction to the Physical Sciences (122574)
Hongkun Park Sirinya Matchacheep
2018 Spring (4 Credits) Schedule: MWF 1000 AM - 1059 AM Instructor Permissions: None Enrollment Cap: n/a
The course covers the chemistry and physics underlying molecular phenomena in the world. Starting from a single electron, the course will build up to atoms, molecules, and materials. Interactions of molecules are studied through thermochemistry, equilibria, entropy and free energy, acids and bases, electrochemistry, and kinetics. Applications include physical principles in biology, global energy demands, and modern materials and technology.
 Course Notes:
A few operations of calculus are developed and used. Fluency in pre- calculus secondary school mathematics is assumed. Students are expected to have AP or honors level high school chemistry, or have completed Life Sciences 1a or Life and Physical Sciences A (LPS A) with a satisfactory grade.
This course is part of an integrated introduction to the physical science intended for students who plan to pursue a concentration in the physical or life sciences and/or to satisfy a pre-medical requirement in general/inorganic chemistry. This course, when taken for a letter grade, meets the General Education requirement for Science of the Physical Universe. Physical Sciences 1 and Physical Sciences 11 cannot both be taken for credit.
A few operations of calculus are developed and used. Fluency in pre- calculus secondary school mathematics is assumed. Students are expected to have AP or honors level high school chemistry, or have completed Life Sciences 1a or Life and Physical Sciences A (LPS A) with a satisfactory grade.
Recommended Prep:
Additional Course Attributes:
Physical Sciences 10
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Core Curriculum
 Science A
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Science & Engineering & Applied Science
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: General Education
 Science of the Physical Universe
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Student