Comparative Literature 119
Poetry in Flux - Dance Afoot (160668)
Cecile Guedon
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: None HARVARD UNIVERSITY
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
T 0400 PM - 0559 PM n/a
  Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanities
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
          9/4/2017 0:39 AM
This course explores the interchange between dance and poetry in late nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literature across a variety of traditions: Anglo-American (Ezra Pound, William Butler Yeats, T. S. Eliot); French (Charles Baudelaire, Arthur Rimbaud, Stéphane Mallarmé); German and Austrian (Georg Trakl, Rainer Maria Rilke); Italian (Dino Campana, Filippo Tommaso Marinetti, Ardengo Soffici); and Spanish (Federico García Lorca). How can poetry draw inspiration from dance and use it as a model for formal experimentation? Through a hands-on engagement with a number of seminal texts, students will learn how dance can set words in motion—and how, conversely, words can represent subtle nuances of bodily expression. We'll focus on issues such as musicality and rhythm, free verse, meter and lyricism in poetry; broader attention will be given to inter-artistic borrowings, including synaesthesia (the blending of sensory modalities), ekphrasis (the literary imitation of a visual object), performance and Gesamtkunstwerk (the ambition to achieve a total work of art). The course will feature film screenings (Loïe Fuller and Pina Bausch; animation by Oskar Fischinger), guest lectures and visits to Harvard Library collections. We'll be reading poetic texts in translation, with an eye to comparing them with the original.
Course Notes: The course will feature film screenings (Loïe Fuller and Pina Bausch; animation by Oskar Fischinger), guest lectures and visits to Harvard Library
collections. We'll be reading poetic texts in translation, with an eye to comparing them with the original.
Additional Course Attributes:
Comparative Literature 12