Comparing, Connecting, Compos(t)ing: Comparative Literature from Jules Verne to Slumdog Millionaire (205024)
Katharina Piechocki
2017 Fall (4 Credits) Schedule: F 0300 PM - 0459 PM Instructor Permissions: None Enrollment Cap: n/a
This seminar centers on five writers, Jules Verne, Virginia Woolf, Aimé Césaire, Vikas Swarup, and Donna Haraway, and filmmakers such as Georges Méliès, Fritz Lang, and Maya Deren. Unlike other survey courses, this seminar introduces you to literary studies and related art forms (film, fine art, music, science, etc.) through the practice of slow reading. We typically dedicate 2-3 sessions to one author whose work we explore more carefully, by couching it in an interdisciplinary context. This means that we will read fewer pages per week, but we will study them in a more focused way instead. Slowing down our reading pace will allow us to appreciate more deeply and
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanities
         HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
fully, how writers and artists created and understood the world around them while transforming us.
Writers in every culture have mobilized the resources of poetic language and literary form to delight, instruct, shock, transform, and unsettle their readers, while critics and theorists have sought to understand how writers achieve their effects. This course will help us sharpen our critical tools to engage with literary, visual, and aural texts from the past two centuries. Through close reading of a selection of compelling works, accompanied by major critical and theoretical statements, we will explore different literary genres and styles and the relation of literature to topics as diverse as the rise of new media, technological transformation and its relation to the humanities, the human-animal divide, medicine, sexuality, translation, space, gender, race, ecology, violence, and (post-)colonialism. Occasional film screenings and visits to the Houghton Library, Science Center, Harvard Art Museums are part of the course.
Additional Course Attributes:
Comparative Literature 11