Czech BB
Intermediate Czech II (159716)
Veronika Tuckerova
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: None
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
MWF 1100 AM - 1159 AM n/a
Part two of a two part intermediate course in modern Czech language and culture for students with previous study of the language. Further development of vocabulary and oral expression within a comprehensive review of Czech grammar. All four major communicative skills (speaking, listening comprehension, reading, writing) are stressed as students learn to use the language both as a means of communication and as a tool for reading and research. Systematic study of word formation and other strategies are taught to help free students from excessive dependence on the dictionary and develop confidence in reading. Increased exposure to the differing registers of Czech in its literary and spoken forms. The two part course prepares students for continued study of Czech in advanced-level courses and for study or travel abroad in the Czech Republic.
Course Notes:
Recommended Prep:
Additional Course Attributes:
Part two of a two-part series. Students are strongly encouraged to enroll in Czech BA in the fall and Czech BB in the spring within the same academic year.
This course will also meet for an additional hour of speaking practice to be arranged the first week of classes.
See language course notes on the Slavic Department website for information about sectioning, pass/fail, satisfactory/unsatisfactory, and auditing: https://slavic.fas.harvard.edu/language-course-notes
Czech BA or placement at the B-level. Familiarity with fundamentals of Czech grammar, particularly case endings and elementary competence in spoken Czech.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  HCOL: Foreign Lang Citation
 Russian
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 For Undergraduate and Graduate Students
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
  Full Year Course
 Divisible Course
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanities
  FAS: Meets Foreign Lang Req
 Russian
                 Czech C