E Asian Film & Media Studies 206 Section: 01 Japanese Media Studies: Seminar (205302)
Shunya Yoshimi
2017 Fall (4 Credits) Schedule: Instructor Permissions: None Enrollment Cap:
T 0100 PM - 0359 PM n/a
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanities
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 For Undergraduate and Graduate Students
         Japan is a media society. We see this in the extensive influence of television on daily life; in the presence of HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
national newspapers that can boast some of the highest circulation numbers in the world; in the ubiquity of smartphones in places like the lecture hall or on the train; and in a highly-developed print culture rivalling that of any modern Western country. Media, as a topic, provides us with a vital starting point for a study of Japanese society. Furthermore, the study of the connections between Japan and media informs our larger understanding of the role these media have played in Korea, China, and other parts of modern Asia.This seminar will focus on the study of eleven cultural fields whose development is indivisible from the larger development of media in Japan. These fields are: print and publishing; the poster; the telephone; the camera; the movie theater; television; advertisements; the fair/exposition; the department store; the university; and the archive. We will examine the emergence and transformations of these fields in the context of modern Japan. At the same time, through an examination of a number of concrete examples, we will consider theoretical and empirical approaches for connecting media studies to disciplines like history and sociology.Throughout the course, students will be encouraged and expected to "attack" the ideas presented by the professor during the seminar or in the readings. Structured critiques of the professor's ideas will be a central part of this seminar's structure. Such a practice, it is hoped, can serve to reclaim a "revolutionary" creativity, in an academic sense, for the modern university.
Class Notes: This course will be taught by Visiting Professor Shun'ya Yoshimi from the University of Tokyo.
Additional Course Attributes