Economics 2140
Econometric Methods (120662)
Elie Tamer Maximilian Kasy
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: None
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
TR 0130 PM - 0259 PM n/a
Enrollment is strictly limited to PhD students in the Economics Department, Business Economics program, and PEG program. Qualified undergraduates may also enroll. No other students may take the course for credit or as auditors.
probability at the level of Statistics 110; linear algebra.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Graduate Students
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Social Sciences
         The class continues the first year sequence in econometrics and covers various topics of relevance in particular in applied microeconomics. The first half of the class will be taught by Maximilian Kasy, the second half by Elie Tamer.
We start by discussing Identification. The focus will be on settings and assumptions that allow to recover causal relationships, including randomized experiments, conditional exogeneity, IV methods, difference in differences, and
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
regression discontinuity. We then proceed to a discussion of Estimation. Statistical decision theory will be introduced as a general framework to think about estimation problems and the trade-off between bias and variance. Various examples of practical relevance will be covered, including experimental design, machine learning methods such as Lasso, and "value added" estimation as popular in education, labor and related fields.Continuing in the same spirit, the second half of class will start by an overview of methods for nonparametric estimation of regression functions and probability densities. The class continues with a discussion of approaches to Inference, including standard errors for m-estimators, clustering, two step estimators, the bootstrap, and randomization inference. The class concludes with some topics in structural estimation, in particular moment inequalities, demand analysis, and other models.
Recommended Prep: Additional Course Attributes:
Economics 214