Economics 10A
Principles of Economics (113326)
N. Mankiw
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: None
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
MWF 1200 PM - 1259 PM n/a
 Introduction to economic issues and basic principles and methods of microeconomics: how markets work, market efficiency and market failure, firm and consumer behavior, policy issues such as taxation, international trade, the environment, and the distribution of income.
Course Notes:
Ec 10A Microeconomics (taught in the fall term) is a prerequisite for Ec 10B macroeconomics (taught in the spring term). Taught in a mixture of lectures and small sections. No calculus is used, and there is no mathematics background requirement. Designed for both potential Economics concentrators and those who plan no further work in the field. The Department of Economics strongly encourages students considering concentration to take both Ec10A and Ec10B in their freshman year. This is a required course for all economics concentrators and a prerequisite for higher level courses in economics. This course, when taken for a letter grade together with Economic 10b, meets the General Education requirement for either Empirical and Mathematical Reasoning or United States in the World, but not both.
Microeconomics (taught in the fall term) is a prerequisite for macroeconomics (taught in the spring term). Students may elect to take only the fall microeconomics course and receive a half-course credit. Taught in a mixture of lectures and small sections. No calculus is used, and there is no mathematics background requirement. Designed for both potential Economics concentrators and those who plan no further work in the field. The Department of Economics strongly encourages students considering concentration to take the full-year course in their freshman year. This is a required course for all economics concentrators and a prerequisite for higher level courses in economics. This course, when taken for a letter grade together with Economic 10b, meets the General Education requirement for either Empirical and Mathematical Reasoning or United States in the World, but not both.
M., W., F., at 12. Sections also meet at 9, 10, 11, 12, 1, or 2. N Mankiw and members of the Department
Class Notes:
Additional Course Attributes:
  Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: General Education
 Empirical and Mathematical Reasoning
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Social Sciences
  FAS: General Education
 United States in the World
  FAS: Core Curriculum
 Social Analysis
               HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
 Economics 10