Energy and Climate: Vision for the Future (120031)
Michael McElroy
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Instructor
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
MW 0100 PM - 0229 PM 105
The climate of our planet is changing at a rate unprecedented in human history. Primarily responsible is the build- up of heat-trapping gases in the atmosphere, most notably carbon dioxide emitted in conjunction with the combustion of coal, oil and natural gas. Concentrations in the atmosphere of CO2 are higher now than at any time over at least the past 850,000 years, higher arguably than at any time since dinosaurs roamed the planet 50 million years ago. The course will provide a perspective on what we may expect in the way of future climate change if we fail to take action –more violent storms, extremes of precipitation, heat waves, pressures on food production, and an inexorable rise in sea level. It will survey the energy choices available should we elect to take action to minimize future damage to the climate system. Special attention will be directed to the challenges and opportunities confronting China and the US, the world's two largest current emitters. The overall goal will be to develop a vision for a more sustainable environmental future, one in which energy is supplied not by climate-altering fossils fuels but rather by zero carbon alternatives such as wind, solar, hydro, geothermal, tidal and nuclear.
Course Notes: Class Notes:
Recommended Prep:
Additional Course Attributes:
Students who have taken Science A-52 may not take this course for credit.
If student interest exceeds the course limit, a random lottery will be conducted. To enter the lottery, you must add the course to your Crimson Cart and explicitly request enrollment permission when prompted. Instructor permission will be granted to only those admitted by the lottery; all students will be notified of their results. See the course website for more details.
Students are expected to have a background of high school algebra and trigonometry.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Core Curriculum
 Science A
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  FAS: General Education
 Science of the Physical Universe
            HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
 Science of Physical Universe 2