Expository Writing 20 Section: 216 Expository Writing 20 (116353)
Julia Hayden
2017 Fall (4 Credits) Schedule: MW 0900 AM - 0959 AM Instructor Permissions: Department Enrollment Cap: 15
An intensive seminar that aims to improve each student's ability to discover and reason about evidence through the medium of essays. Each section focuses on a particular theme or topic, described on the Expos Website. All sections give students practice in formulating questions, analyzing both primary and secondary sources and properly acknowledging them, supporting arguments with strong and detailed evidence, and shaping clear, lively
 essays. All sections emphasize
Topic:
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
revision.
The Psychology of Success and
Students must pass one term of Expository Writing 20 to meet the College's Expository Writing requirement.
Who gets ahead in America? Why do some succeed while others fail? Given knowledge of someone's background or personal characteristics, can we predict if she will become successful? How do we account for the influence of various complex factors, including personality, family, and community? In this course, we will examine questions of success, failure, achievement, and identity viewed through the lens of current theories in psychology. We will begin by examining individual-level, person-centered theories of success with readings on grit, the growth mindset, and multipotentiality. Next, we will read Malcolm Gladwell's Outliers: The Story of Success alongside a longitudinal, ethnographic study of 12 American children and a seminal treatise on the role of race in the American classroom. As part of our broader inquiry into the environmental factors that impact success, we will explore how race, class, and familial wealth and resources affect children's lived experiences of childhood and, later, their chances of successfully getting into college. In the final unit of the course, students will answer the question, "What does it take to be successful at Harvard?" Students will select their own pop-science book on a self-help topic like willpower, motivation, happiness, or creativity, research the relevant academic literature, and create a written proposal with an accompanying short presentation to disseminate their findings. Throughout the course, we will use psychological theory to motivate questions and answers about human behavior in a society where the demand for success can be tantalizingly high and the fear of failure devastatingly relentless.
Additional Course Attributes:
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
  Expository Sectioning
 Expository Writing 20 Sectioning
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
            HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 A