Expository Writing 20 Section: 240 Expository Writing 20 (116353)
Donna Mumme
2018 Spring (4 Credits) Schedule: MW 1100 AM - 1159 AM Instructor Permissions: Department Enrollment Cap: 14
An intensive seminar that aims to improve each student's ability to discover and reason about evidence through the medium of essays. Each section focuses on a particular theme or topic, described on the Expos Website. All sections give students practice in formulating questions, analyzing both primary and secondary sources and properly acknowledging them, supporting arguments with strong and detailed evidence, and shaping clear, lively
 essays. All sections emphasize
Topic:
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
revision.
Food
Students must pass one term of Expository Writing 20 to meet the College's Expository Writing requirement.
What's for dinner? A seemingly simple question that raises even more. What should we eat? What do we eat? Why do we eat it? How we think about these questions in the context of dining at Harvard is the focus of this course. On the one hand, concerns about the environment or the welfare of animals or our own health might lead us to make deliberate choices about what we eat. On the other hand, less conscious forces –such as habits, how food is presented, culture, innate preferences –might also drive what we eat. In the first unit, we will consider the debate between "sustainable" and "industrialized" farming and ask what that debate can tell us about how we choose what to eat and perhaps how we should choose what to eat. In the second unit, we will take a look at a failed food-related policy aimed at addressing obesity: the ban on large-sized sodas in New York City undertaken a few years ago by then-Mayor Michael Bloomberg. Using psychology research on eating, decision-making, habits, and behavior change, we will evaluate the policy and think about what lessons we can take away from its failure. In the final unit, students will apply what they have learned about why we eat what we eat to evaluate eating in Harvard's dining halls. Students will select an area of interest to research further and will propose evidence-based changes to the current system. Throughout the course, we will use scientific evidence to inform our thinking about food and eating.
Additional Course Attributes:
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
          HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AExpository Writing 20 Section: 240 Expository Writing 20 (116353)
Sparsha Saha
2017 Fall (4 Credits) Schedule: MW 0100 PM - 0159 PM Instructor Permissions: Department Enrollment Cap: 15
An intensive seminar that aims to improve each student's ability to discover and reason about evidence through the medium of essays. Each section focuses on a particular theme or topic, described on the Expos Website. All sections give students practice in formulating questions, analyzing both primary and secondary sources and properly acknowledging them, supporting arguments with strong and detailed evidence, and shaping clear, lively essays. All sections emphasize revision.
Topic: Terrorism or Freedom Fighter
Course Notes: Students must pass one term of Expository Writing 20 to meet the College's
Expository Writing requirement.
Class Notes: The saying "One man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter" long ago entered the realm of cliché', but given that it persists, what does it really
 Additional Course Attributes