Expository Writing 20 Section: 263 Expository Writing 20 (116353)
Joshua Williams
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Department
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
TR 0100 PM - 0159 PM 15
begin in the United States by reading excerpts from the "narratives" of former slaves, including Frederick Douglass, Harriet Jacobs, and Solomon Northrup, whose memoir was the basis for the award-winning film Twelve Years A Slave. What did the autobiographical truthfulness of these accounts accomplish? Why were they so important for the abolitionist movement? What do their popularity and political importance say about the nature of black suffering and its consumption as literature? We will then broaden the scope of our inquiry to consider narratives of blackness and suffering from elsewhere in the African diaspora. Our touchstone will be the Martinique- born philosopher Frantz Fanon, whose autobiographical engagement with racial trauma in Black Skin, White Masks remains one of the most important critical texts on blackness in the modern world. We will grapple with Fanon's account of realizing –quite late in life –that he was black and what that meant. This will help illuminate the broader world of postcolonial African and Caribbean politics and literature, including the poetry of Aimé Césaire and the fiction of Ama Ata Aidoo. In the final section of the course, we will return to the United States to engage with the #blacklivesmatter movement and some of the provocative music, film, and prose in dialogue with it: Beyoncé's Lemonade, Ryan Coogler's Fruitvale Station,and Ta-Nehisi Coates' Between the World and Me. What do these new black autobiographies have in common with their antecedents? How has the conversation about black life and black suffering changed? Or, has it changed at all?
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
           An intensive seminar that aims to improve each student's ability to discover and reason about evidence through the medium of essays. Each section focuses on a particular theme or topic, described on the Expos Website. All sections give students practice in formulating questions, analyzing both primary and secondary sources and properly acknowledging them, supporting arguments with strong and detailed evidence, and shaping clear, lively
 essays. All sections emphasize
Topic:
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
revision.
Black Autobiography
Students must pass one term of Expository Writing 20 to meet the College's Expository Writing requirement.
Why is autobiography so key to the black literary tradition on both sides of the Atlantic? In this course we will search for answers by working our way through black autobiographies from a number of different genres. We will begin in the United States by reading excerpts from the "narratives" of former slaves, including Frederick Douglass, Harriet Jacobs, and Solomon Northrup, whose memoir was the basis for the award-winning film Twelve
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Additional Course Attributes