Expository Writing 20 Section: 217 Expository Writing 20 (116353)
Dwight Fee
2018 Spring (4 Credits) Schedule: TR 1100 AM - 1159 AM Instructor Permissions: Department Enrollment Cap: 15
An intensive seminar that aims to improve each student's ability to discover and reason about evidence through the medium of essays. Each section focuses on a particular theme or topic, described on the Expos Website. All sections give students practice in formulating questions, analyzing both primary and secondary sources and properly acknowledging them, supporting arguments with strong and detailed evidence, and shaping clear, lively
 essays. All sections emphasize
Topic:
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
revision.
Social Worlds of Friendship at
Students must pass one term of Expository Writing 20 to meet the College's Expository Writing requirement.
Note: This Expos course requires participation in several activities scheduled outside of normal class hours.
Social science research has traditionally suggested that we tend to seek out friends who are similar to ourselves. But is this always true? What factors inspire people to venture outside of their comfort zones through friendship – especially at Harvard? In collaboration with the Learning Lab at Harvard's Bok Center for Teaching and Learning, this course explores the formation of social networks on our campus and investigates how meanings of identity and difference are constructed through the experience of friendship. In Unit 1, we examine Emerson's renowned essay, "Friendship" (1841), working with his handwritten manuscripts at the Houghton Library to search for clues that illuminate Emerson's often paradoxical thinking about the significance of friendship. We then carry forward the complexities of relationships that Emerson reveals into an interview-based research project that explores friendship and social life at Harvard. In Unit 2 we will read Harvard's important Report of the College Working Group on Diversity and Inclusion (2015) as well as theories of "social capital" (the networks and support systems that promote health and happiness) as we analyze the delicate interplay between the processes of how people "bridge" across boundaries of their identities, and how they "bond" within particular friendship groups. We will also explore how meanings of difference and belonging play out across specific contexts of the College (e.g., Annenberg, blocking, extracurriculars, and student organizations). In small teams, students will design individual research projects through proposals that involve both writing and on-camera speaking at the Bok Center's Learning Lab. In the third unit, students will carry out their individual research in close connection with their teams. Towards the end of the semester, we will publicly share our research findings through a class capstone project. For this class, students should be interested in working on visual presentations as well as written papers. This course is hands-on and heavily collaborative, modeling that which it studies –namely, a spirit of engagement, dialogue, and community.
Additional Course Attributes:
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
          HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AExpository Writing 20 Section: 217 Expository Writing 20 (116353)
Julia Hayden
2017 Fall (4 Credits) Schedule: MW 1000 AM - 1059 AM Instructor Permissions: Department Enrollment Cap: 15
An intensive seminar that aims to improve each student's ability to discover and reason about evidence through the medium of essays. Each section focuses on a particular theme or topic, described on the Expos Website. All sections give students practice in formulating questions, analyzing both primary and secondary sources and properly acknowledging them, supporting arguments with strong and detailed evidence, and shaping clear, lively essays. All sections emphasize revision.
Topic: The Psychology of Success and
Course Notes: Students must pass one term of Expository Writing 20 to meet the College's
Expository Writing requirement.
Class Notes: Who gets ahead in America? Why do some succeed while others fail? Given knowledge of someone's background or personal characteristics, can we
predict if she will become successful? How do we account for the influence of various complex factors, including personality, family, and community? In this course, we will examine questions of success, failure, achievement, and identity viewed through the lens of current theories in psychology. We will begin by examining individual-level, person-centered theories of success with readings on grit, the growth mindset, and multipotentiality. Next, we will read Malcolm Gladwell's Outliers: The Story of Success alongside a longitudinal, ethnographic study of 12 American children and a seminal treatise on the role of race in the American classroom. As part of our broader inquiry into the environmental factors that impact success, we will explore how race, class, and familial wealth and resources affect children's lived experiences of childhood and, later, their chances of successfully getting into college. In the final unit of the course, students will answer the question, "What does it take to be successful at Harvard?" Students will select their own pop-science book on a self-help topic like willpower, motivation, happiness, or creativity, research the relevant academic literature, and create a written proposal with an accompanying short presentation to disseminate their findings. Throughout the course, we will use psychological theory to motivate questions and answers about human behavior in a society where the demand for success can be tantalizingly high and the fear of failure devastatingly relentless.
Additional Course Attributes:
Expository Writing 20 Section: 21