Expository Writing 20 Section: 265 Expository Writing 20 (116353)
Jeffrey Wilson
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Department
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
TR 1100 AM - 1159 AM 15
creation and the values of the modern world. We'll begin with a reading of the most famous artwork of the past millennium, Hamlet, a play about a bad philosopher trying to avenge his father's murder. Then we'll read Shakespeare's Richard III (about a mentally unstable man willing to do anything, including murder, to gain political power) alongside the Netflix show House of Cards (which modernizes Richard III with twenty-first-century American politics). We'll also run Richard III through some theories of criminology, a modern field that claims to offer scientific explanations for why crime happens. Finally, we'll ask, "Why Shakespeare?" and entertain answers ranging from the cynical (Shakespeare is a dead, white male that other dead, white males have used to promote the values of dead, white males) to the euphoric (Shakespeare is universal; Shakespeare invented the human).
  Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
            An intensive seminar that aims to improve each student's ability to discover and reason about evidence through the medium of essays. Each section focuses on a particular theme or topic, described on the Expos Website. All sections give students practice in formulating questions, analyzing both primary and secondary sources and properly acknowledging them, supporting arguments with strong and detailed evidence, and shaping clear, lively
 essays. All sections emphasize
Topic:
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
revision.
Why Shakespeare?
Students must pass one term of Expository Writing 20 to meet the College's Expository Writing requirement.
Shakespeare, we have all been told, is extremely important. You might agree or disagree with this pronouncement, but do you know why Shakespeare matters to so many people? Why does every high school in America assign Shakespeare? Why did the world erupt with jubilation on his 450th birthday in April 2014? Why did the British government pay $2.4 million to have Shakespeare translated into Mandarin? Does Shakespeare deserve all this fuss, or is he really overrated? In this section, Shakespeare lovers and haters alike are invited to consider the question of Shakespeare's popularity by looking into the relationship between his methods of artistic creation and the values of the modern world. We'll begin with a reading of the most famous artwork of the past millennium, Hamlet, a play about a bad philosopher trying to avenge his father's murder. Then we'll read Shakespeare's Richard III (about a mentally unstable man willing to do anything, including murder, to gain political power) alongside the Netflix show House of Cards (which modernizes Richard III with twenty-first-century
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Additional Course Attributes:
Expository Writing 4