Expository Writing 20 Section: 248 Expository Writing 20 (116353)
Gillian Sinnott
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Department
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
TR 1000 AM - 1059 AM 15
have to choose: live or tell." Both suggest that living one's life and telling the story of it are mutually exclusive. Over the past few decades, many philosophers have disagreed, developing the view that understanding one's life as a story is not only something that most of us do, but allows us to become full persons and to live well. We will begin the course by considering some of these recent views. Are we right to speak of chapters of our lives and authoring our selves? To explain someone's behavior by referring to her character, or alternatively her role? To use literary genres such as tragedy to describe events in real life? What is entailed by such metaphors? Do they withstand careful scrutiny? Do our lives enact typical narrative arcs? Should they? Or do such claims confuse fiction and reality? In the middle part of the course, we will look at two fictional works that investigate similar issues. In Julian Barnes's The Sense of an Ending, the narrator's understanding of his life is upset by revelations concerning his past; the novel explores the fallibility of memory and its relation to material evidence. In the recent Swedish film Force Majeure, a wealthy family's ski vacation is upset when the husband reacts to an avalanche in an apparently cowardly manner, raising questions about character and situation, and what it means to be brave. At the end of the course, we will consider some critics of narrative self-understanding, as well as more specific applications of it. Do empirical studies challenge the idea that we have stable character? Does understanding one's life as a story preclude living in the moment? If lives are like stories, do they have a genre? Students could begin from these or other questions as they develop their own final research topics.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
           An intensive seminar that aims to improve each student's ability to discover and reason about evidence through the medium of essays. Each section focuses on a particular theme or topic, described on the Expos Website. All sections give students practice in formulating questions, analyzing both primary and secondary sources and properly acknowledging them, supporting arguments with strong and detailed evidence, and shaping clear, lively essays. All sections emphasize revision.
 HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Topic:
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
Privacy and Surveillance
Students must pass one term of Expository Writing 20 to meet the College's Expository Writing requirement.
Most of us are vaguely aware that our online activities are extensively monitored by corporations in search of profits and that the government may be watching or listening to some of our communications in the name of national security. It is easy to decry this state of affairs as Orwellian, or, on the other hand, to reassure ourselves that surveillance only harms those with something to hide. In this course we will seek to move beyond these simplistic responses by considering the rights underlying privacy claims and by closely examining how surveillance operates in practice. In the first unit, we will explore the powerful, but surprisingly elusive, concept of privacy. Are we concerned only about the possibility that information gathered about us will be abused? Or is there something more fundamentally troubling in the government reading people's emails, or in corporations having records of our internet browsing histories? In the second unit, we will consider government surveillance, specifically the National Security Agency's power to monitor the content of calls and emails originating from non-American citizens who are outside the United States. Do these non-citizens have any privacy rights vis-à-vis the U.S. government? Are there adequate legal protections for American citizens whose communications—both dangerous and innocent—are swept up in surveillance that is targeted at foreigners? In the final unit we will turn to the issue of privacy rights against corporations. Do we have a right to be forgotten online, or should truthful information about private citizens be available via internet search engines indefinitely? Can internet users be regarded as having given meaningful consent to privacy agreements that they have not read and would in any case likely not fully understand? For this unit, students will write a research paper about the appropriate limits on the power that private entities have over our online lives.
Additional Course Attributes