Expository Writing 20 Section: 246 Expository Writing 20 (116353)
Ben Roth
2018 Spring (4 Credits) Schedule: TR 0100 PM - 0159 PM Instructor Permissions: Department Enrollment Cap: 15
An intensive seminar that aims to improve each student's ability to discover and reason about evidence through the medium of essays. Each section focuses on a particular theme or topic, described on the Expos Website. All sections give students practice in formulating questions, analyzing both primary and secondary sources and properly acknowledging them, supporting arguments with strong and detailed evidence, and shaping clear, lively
 essays. All sections emphasize
Topic:
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
revision.
The Narrative Self
Students must pass one term of Expository Writing 20 to meet the College's Expository Writing requirement.
"Life must be understood backwards, but lived forwards" the philosopher Kierkegaard wrote. Sartre, in one of his novels, develops the thought: "You have to choose: live or tell." Both suggest that living one's life and telling the story of it are mutually exclusive. Over the past few decades, many philosophers have disagreed, developing the view that understanding one's life as a story is not only something that most of us do, but allows us to become full persons and to live well. We will begin the course by considering some of these recent views. Are we right to speak of chapters of our lives and authoring our selves? To explain someone's behavior by referring to her character, or alternatively her role? To use literary genres such as tragedy to describe events in real life? What is entailed by such metaphors? Do they withstand careful scrutiny? Do our lives enact typical narrative arcs? Should they? Or do such claims confuse fiction and reality? In the middle part of the course, we will look at two fictional works that investigate similar issues. In Julian Barnes's The Sense of an Ending, the narrator's understanding of his life is upset by revelations concerning his past; the novel explores the fallibility of memory and its relation to material evidence. In the recent Swedish film Force Majeure, a wealthy family's ski vacation is upset when the husband reacts to an avalanche in an apparently cowardly manner, raising questions about character and situation, and what it means to be brave. At the end of the course, we will consider some critics of narrative self-understanding, as well as more specific applications of it. Do empirical studies challenge the idea that we have stable character? Does understanding one's life as a story preclude living in the moment? If lives are like stories, do they have a genre? Students could begin from these or other questions as they develop their own final research topics.
Additional Course Attributes:
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
          HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AExpository Writing 20 Section: 246 Expository Writing 20 (116353)
Ezer Vierba
2017 Fall (4 Credits) Schedule: MW 1100 AM - 1159 AM Instructor Permissions: Department Enrollment Cap: 15
An intensive seminar that aims to improve each student's ability to discover and reason about evidence through the medium of essays. Each section focuses on a particular theme or topic, described on the Expos Website. All sections give students practice in formulating questions, analyzing both primary and secondary sources and properly acknowledging them, supporting arguments with strong and detailed evidence, and shaping clear, lively essays. All sections emphasize revision.
Topic: Drugs, Mind, and War in the Am
Course Notes: Students must pass one term of Expository Writing 20 to meet the College's
Expository Writing requirement.
Class Notes: Psychoactive substances have played an outsized role in the modern history of the Americas. As marijuana is being decriminalized, our class will ask how
 Additional Course Attributes