Expository Writing 20 Section: 205 Expository Writing 20 (116353)
Jacob Betz
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Department
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
TR 1100 AM - 1159 AM 15
And despite predictions to the contrary, levels of devout religious belief remain high, evidenced by recent controversies over a proposed Islamic community center in Lower Manhattan, as well as Supreme Court rulings on female access to contraception and same-sex marriage. How do people— including nonbelievers—experience this religious multiplicity? How are these vast religious differences negotiated socially, culturally, politically, and legally? Moving beyond theology, this course will explore the broad concept of lived religion in the United States. Through readings in fiction, law, history, and sociology, we'll tackle these fundamental issues. In Unit One, we'll read Ayad Akhtar's 2013 Pulitzer Prize-winning play, Disgraced, to explore how religion affects intimate relationships among spouses, friends, and co- workers. In the second unit, we'll wade into the constitutional quandary surrounding the First Amendment, dissecting legal scholars' arguments over the limits of religious freedom. Through a series of case studies involving snake handling, home schooling, and drug use, we'll examine the frequent tension that emerges from a Bill of Rights that both guarantees the free exercise of religion and requires some degree of secularism. Finally, in Unit 3, students will focus on a religious topic of their choosing, design a research proposal, examine both primary and secondary sources, and write a substantial research paper.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  Expository Sectioning
 Expository Writing 20 Sectioning
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
             An intensive seminar that aims to improve each student's ability to discover and reason about evidence through the medium of essays. Each section focuses on a particular theme or topic, described on the Expos Website. All sections give students practice in formulating questions, analyzing both primary and secondary sources and properly acknowledging them, supporting arguments with strong and detailed evidence, and shaping clear, lively essays. All sections emphasize revision.
Topic: Religious Pluralism
 HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
Students must pass one term of Expository Writing 20 to meet the College's Expository Writing requirement.
The United States is arguably the most religiously diverse nation in the world. Americans possess a dizzying array of religious beliefs and behavior. And despite predictions to the contrary, levels of devout religious belief remain high, evidenced by recent controversies over a proposed Islamic community center in Lower Manhattan, as well as Supreme Court rulings on female access to contraception and same-sex marriage. How do people— including nonbelievers—experience this religious multiplicity? How are these vast religious differences negotiated socially, culturally, politically, and legally? Moving beyond theology, this course will explore the broad concept of lived religion in the United States. Through readings in fiction, law, history, and sociology, we'll tackle these fundamental issues. In Unit One, we'll read Ayad Akhtar's 2013 Pulitzer Prize-winning play, Disgraced, to explore how religion affects intimate relationships among spouses, friends, and co- workers. In the second unit, we'll wade into the constitutional quandary surrounding the First Amendment, dissecting legal scholars' arguments over the limits of religious freedom. Through a series of case studies involving snake handling, home schooling, and drug use, we'll examine the frequent tension that emerges from a Bill of Rights that both guarantees the free exercise of religion and requires some degree of secularism. Finally, in Unit 3, students will focus on a religious topic of their choosing, design a research proposal, examine both primary and secondary sources, and write a substantial research paper.
Additional Course Attributes