Expository Writing 20 Section: 235 Expository Writing 20 (116353)
Ramyar Rossoukh
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Department
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
TR 1000 AM - 1059 AM 15
An intensive seminar that aims to improve each student's ability to discover and reason about evidence through the medium of essays. Each section focuses on a particular theme or topic, described on the Expos Website. All sections give students practice in formulating questions, analyzing both primary and secondary sources and properly acknowledging them, supporting arguments with strong and detailed evidence, and shaping clear, lively
 essays. All sections emphasize
Topic:
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
revision.
Journey to Mars
Students must pass one term of Expository Writing 20 to meet the College's Expository Writing requirement.
Evoking President Kennedy's famous speech to put a man on the moon by the end of the 1960s, on October 11, 2016, President Obama called for the United States to launch humans to Mars by 2030 and to one day settle there. The quest to achieve this goal has dominated recent headlines from NASA's landing of the Curiosity Rover to Hollywood's renewed fascination with the red planet. Mars has become the next great frontier in human conquest and exploration. Why Mars? What is at stake in our efforts to reach Mars? What does it say about life here on Earth? Over the semester, we will look at a range of scholarly literature on Mars as well as films, science fiction, and virtual reality simulations to examine some possible futures in which humans have colonized outer space and become a multi-planetary species. Our launch will be a close analysis of the film The Martian to discover key themes and topics in media representations of Mars. We will next chart a path through Ray Bradbury's The Martian Chronicles to explore connections between science, technology, and art in our imagination of human life and the experience of difference on Mars. The course will conclude with a broader inquiry of Mars as the next frontier of human entrepreneurship that critically engages with the science and ethics of proposed future Mars missions (Mars One, SpaceX, UAE's Mars 2117, among others). Students will write a final research paper on a topic of their choice that builds on course readings, activities, and discussion.
Additional Course Attributes:
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  Expository Sectioning
 Expository Writing 20 Sectioning
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
            HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AExpository Writing 20 Section: 235 Expository Writing 20 (116353)
Lindsay Mitchell
2018 Spring (4 Credits) Schedule: TR 1200 PM - 1259 PM Instructor Permissions: Department Enrollment Cap: 15
An intensive seminar that aims to improve each student's ability to discover and reason about evidence through the medium of essays. Each section focuses on a particular theme or topic, described on the Expos Website. All sections give students practice in formulating questions, analyzing both primary and secondary sources and properly acknowledging them, supporting arguments with strong and detailed evidence, and shaping clear, lively essays. All sections emphasize revision.
Topic: The Femme Fatale
Course Notes: Students must pass one term of Expository Writing 20 to meet the College's
Expository Writing requirement.
Class Notes: The femme fatale--the attractive, seductive woman who brings about the downfall of any man she encounters—has fascinated us through the ages,
from Biblical figures like Eve, Delilah, and Salome and Ancient Egypt's Cleopatra to Catwoman, or even Nicki Minaj's media persona. In most stories, the femme fatale's dangerous actions empower her, but she ultimately must also submit to the idea that her empowerment renders her a villain. How does this contradiction in the femme fatale's character reflect tensions in our own evolving understanding of gender? How can the femme fatale character help us untangle the real gender problems that modern women and men face? This course will begin to explore these and other related questions by studying accounts of femme fatales in literature and film. In our first unit, we'll explore 1920s and 1930s pulp fiction as a source of the modern fatale archetype, with special focus on James M. Cain's pulp novella The Postman Always Rings Twice. In our second unit, we'll move to a fictional account of two dueling femme fatales published during the height of the 1960s feminist movement, and examine Jim Thompson's noir thriller The Grifters alongside the updated film adaptation by director Stephen Frears. Finally, in our third unit, students will research a modern day femme fatale, either real or fictional, and argue why the modern version is recognizable as a femme fatale, but also represents some evolution of, or twist on, the classic archetype. Here students will be challenged not only to apply broad theories and ideas from the course, but also to reach a greater understanding of what makes some modern women seem so dangerous.
Additional Course Attributes