Expository Writing 20 Section: 247 Expository Writing 20 (116353)
Ben Roth
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Department
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
TR 0200 PM - 0259 PM 15
the Americas have been embroiled in a war on the habits of its peoples. In our first unit, we will consider how the coca leaf, one of the defining symbols of indigenous culture in the Andes, has been transformed into cocaine, an international villain. In the second unit, we will look at the ways in which traffickers adapted to the growing appetites of American consumers in the 1980s and 1990s. Using Bandits, a book by the great 20th century historian, Eric Hobsbawm, we will analyze the social role that drug traffickers have played in their societies. In our final unit, we will ask how the "War on Drugs" has changed the U.S. and Latin America, and consider whether we are currently at a historical watershed in the world's relationship with drugs. As we refine our analytical and writing skills, we will also spend some time on meditation, with the goal of better understanding our own minds, and cultivating concentration and equanimity.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  Expository Sectioning
 Expository Writing 20 Sectioning
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
             An intensive seminar that aims to improve each student's ability to discover and reason about evidence through the medium of essays. Each section focuses on a particular theme or topic, described on the Expos Website. All sections give students practice in formulating questions, analyzing both primary and secondary sources and
 HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
properly acknowledging them, supporting arguments with strong and detailed evidence, and shaping clear, lively essays. All sections emphasize revision.
Topic: The Narrative Self
Course Notes: Students must pass one term of Expository Writing 20 to meet the College's
Expository Writing requirement.
Class Notes: "Life must be understood backwards, but lived forwards" the philosopher Kierkegaard wrote. Sartre, in one of his novels, develops the thought: "You
Additional Course Attributes