Expository Writing 20 Section: 204 Expository Writing 20 (116353)
Jacob Betz
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Department
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
TR 1000 AM - 1059 AM 15
they read what grown-ups read. How then did writing for children as we now know it come of age? Why does the genre have such an enduring hold on our cultural imagination, even as it continues to provoke sharp debate over its greater purpose and value? Are classic children's books like The Wizard of Oz, The Wind in the Willows, and The Cat in the Hat instructive or subversive, didactic or liberating? In this course we'll examine selections from three centuries of popular prose and verse written expressly for and about children as we investigate how this eclectic canon reflects evolving ideas about childhood, changing views about educating and enchanting young readers, and persistent disputes over what and how children should learn from books. In Unit 1 we'll survey landmark works in English for children from the Puritan through the Victorian eras, including The New England Primer, Grimms' Tales, and Alice in Wonderland, as we consider what these texts tell us about the origin and evolution of the genre. In Unit 2 we'll examine works by touchstone authors for younger readers including Mark Twain, Louisa May Alcott, Rudyard Kipling, E. B. White, C. S. Lewis, Maurice Sendak, and others, drawing on the critical perspectives of thinkers such as John Locke, Bruno Bettelheim, Alison Lurie, and Marina Warner to assess arguments about the essential function of imaginative literature from infancy through adolescence. In the final unit, students will conduct their own research to place a major children's author of their choice in a relevant cultural and historical context.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
  Expository Sectioning
 Expository Writing 20 Sectioning
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
             An intensive seminar that aims to improve each student's ability to discover and reason about evidence through the medium of essays. Each section focuses on a particular theme or topic, described on the Expos Website. All sections give students practice in formulating questions, analyzing both primary and secondary sources and
 HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
properly acknowledging them, supporting arguments with strong and detailed evidence, and shaping clear, lively essays. All sections emphasize revision.
Topic: Religious Pluralism
Course Notes: Students must pass one term of Expository Writing 20 to meet the College's
Expository Writing requirement.
Class Notes: The United States is arguably the most religiously diverse nation in the world. Americans possess a dizzying array of religious beliefs and behavior.
Additional Course Attributes