Expository Writing 20 Section: 252 Expository Writing 20 (116353)
Rebecca Summerhays
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Department
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
TR 1100 AM - 1159 AM 15
writers and readers made of the genre they've inherited? We'll develop a working definition of the Gothic in our first segment, which will take a group of short stories—of various centuries and nations—as its primary texts. Next, we'll read Jane Austen's Gothic spoof, Northanger Abbey, in the context of both the popular fiction Austen parodies and the heated eighteenth-century debates about what young women should read. Our third segment will focus on Edgar Allan Poe and his tales of paranoia, insanity, and incest. This segment will extend the course's focus from the Gothic mansion (and the Gothic monster) to the Gothic mind.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  Expository Sectioning
 Expository Writing 20 Sectioning
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
             An intensive seminar that aims to improve each student's ability to discover and reason about evidence through the medium of essays. Each section focuses on a particular theme or topic, described on the Expos Website. All sections give students practice in formulating questions, analyzing both primary and secondary sources and properly acknowledging them, supporting arguments with strong and detailed evidence, and shaping clear, lively
 essays. All sections emphasize
Topic:
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
revision.
Reading the Body
Students must pass one term of Expository Writing 20 to meet the College's Expository Writing requirement.
What does it mean—and what has it meant—to have a body? Is a body a physical boundary separating a self from the rest of the world? If so, how do we account for cases like contagion or reproduction, where bodies implicate one another? How does the way we think about our bodies depend upon both the technologies we use to manage, diagnose, and measure them and the artistic forms we use to represent them? We'll begin to explore these questions by visiting the Warren Anatomical Museum and the Putnam Gallery to examine Harvard's morbidly fascinating collections of medical curiosities and instruments—which include phrenological models of the brain, fetal skeletons, medical diagrams and prints, early X-ray machines, Civil War surgical instruments, and even Phineas Gage's skull. In our second unit, we will read across the boundaries of theology, literature, and science—genres we usually imagine as distinct—to understand how writers from a range of perspectives have grasped and represented the origin, construction, and development of the human body. We will examine the works of Jean Baptiste de Lamarck, William Paley, and Charles Darwin and analyze A. S. Byatt's treatment of their debate in her novella, "Morpho Eugenia." This interest in how the body has been understood in the past will
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Additional Course Attributes