Expository Writing 20 Section: 258 Expository Writing 20 (116353)
Ezer Vierba
2018 Spring (4 Credits) HARVARD UNIVERSITY
Schedule:
MW 1100 AM - 1159 AM
In our daily lives we negotiate our relation to the authority of government, religion, school, parents, and peers. But what is authority? How does an entity gain authority in the first place? What happens when authority is abused? What does it mean to challenge authority? And what does authority have to do with human rights? We'll begin by reading the many-times- banned One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, and we'll investigate that explosive novel's complex and nuanced treatment of, and reaction to, authority. Next, we'll read work by one or more international authors. These formerly or currently "at-risk" writers will visit our class, and we will analyze their work and what it reveals about authority and what happens when a writer who challenges governmental and cultural authority speaks openly about, and through, her/his work. This ongoing inquiry into the nature of authority will shape our research topics in the third unit, when we will investigate and theorize answers to questions arising out of our explorations of such topics as authority and: education, language and rhetorical strategy, politics, human rights, and art.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
           9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Instructor Permissions: Department Enrollment Cap: 15
An intensive seminar that aims to improve each student's ability to discover and reason about evidence through the medium of essays. Each section focuses on a particular theme or topic, described on the Expos Website. All sections give students practice in formulating questions, analyzing both primary and secondary sources and properly acknowledging them, supporting arguments with strong and detailed evidence, and shaping clear, lively essays. All sections emphasize revision.
Topic: Drugs, Mind, and War in the Am
Course Notes: Students must pass one term of Expository Writing 20 to meet the College's
Expository Writing requirement.
Class Notes: Psychoactive substances have played an outsized role in the modern history of the Americas. As marijuana is being decriminalized around the region, our class will ask how the Americas came to be embroiled in a war on the habits
 Additional Course Attributes