Expository Writing 20 Section: 229 Expository Writing 20 (116353)
Shannon Monaghan
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Department
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
TR 1100 AM - 1159 AM 15
tensions in our own evolving understanding of gender? How can the femme fatale character help us untangle the real gender problems that modern women and men face? This course will begin to explore these and other related questions by studying accounts of femme fatales in literature and film. In our first unit, we'll explore 1920s and 1930s pulp fiction as a source of the modern fatale archetype, with special focus on James M. Cain's noir novella Double Indemnity. In our second unit, we'll move to a fictional account of a more powerful femme fatale published in the 1970's post- feminist movement, and examine Stephen King's novel Carrie alongside the updated film adaptation, Brian de Palma's eponymous cult classic. Finally, in our third unit, students will research a modern day femme fatale, either real or fictional, and argue why the modern version is recognizable as a femme fatale, but also represents some evolution of, or twist on, the classic archetype. Here students will be challenged not only to apply broad theories and ideas from the course, but also to reach a greater understanding of what makes some modern women seem so dangerous.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  Expository Sectioning
 Expository Writing 20 Sectioning
             An intensive seminar that aims to improve each student's ability to discover and reason about evidence through the medium of essays. Each section focuses on a particular theme or topic, described on the Expos Website. All sections give students practice in formulating questions, analyzing both primary and secondary sources and properly acknowledging them, supporting arguments with strong and detailed evidence, and shaping clear, lively
 essays. All sections emphasize
Topic:
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
revision.
Human Rights as History
Students must pass one term of Expository Writing 20 to meet the College's Expository Writing requirement.
The U.N.'s Universal Declaration of Human Rights has thirty articles, among them the more familiar —"life, liberty, and security of person" —and the less familiar —the right to a family, to cultural life, to rest and leisure. We often presume that human rights need no justification or explanation. But what are human rights? Are they really universal? We begin our course by looking at the "strange triumph of human rights" in the aftermath of the violence of the Second World War. After analyzing the development of this idea over time, we'll think about how human rights are (or are not) protected. We'll draw on A Problem from Hell, the Pulitzer Prize-winning book by former U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Samantha Power, who argues that powerful countries have a moral responsibility to prevent genocide. Power addresses
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Additional Course Attributes