Expository Writing 20 Section: 259 Expository Writing 20 (116353)
Ezer Vierba
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Department
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
MW 0100 PM - 0159 PM 15
of its peoples. To provide background for our first unit, we will consider how the coca leaf, one of the defining symbols of indigenous culture in the Andes, has been transformed into cocaine, an international villain. We will then turn to analyzing a scene from Arthur Conan Doyle's The Sign of the Four to understand an influential way in which psychoactive drug use has been imagined in Western culture. In the second unit, we will examine the stereotypical images of the psychoactive drug user in classic texts from Sigmund Freud, Aldous Huxley, and others. To do so, we will draw on Edward Said's notion of "orientalism"—the long-running colonialist representation of non-European peoples as passive, irrational, part of nature, and in need of Western control. In our final unit, we will turn to investigating how the "War on Drugs" has changed the U.S. and Latin America, and consider whether we are currently at a historical watershed in the world's relationship with drugs. Throughout the course, we will also explore the practice of meditation, both to consider what has become a powerful alternative in our culture to psychoactive substance use and to better understand our own minds and cultivate concentration and equanimity.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
           An intensive seminar that aims to improve each student's ability to discover and reason about evidence through the medium of essays. Each section focuses on a particular theme or topic, described on the Expos Website. All sections give students practice in formulating questions, analyzing both primary and secondary sources and properly acknowledging them, supporting arguments with strong and detailed evidence, and shaping clear, lively essays. All sections emphasize revision.
 HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Topic:
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
Drugs, Mind, and War in the Am
Students must pass one term of Expository Writing 20 to meet the College's Expository Writing requirement.
Psychoactive substances have played an outsized role in the modern history of the Americas. As marijuana is being decriminalized around the region, our class will ask how the Americas came to be embroiled in a war on the habits of its peoples. To provide background for our first unit, we will consider how the coca leaf, one of the defining symbols of indigenous culture in the Andes, has been transformed into cocaine, an international villain. We will then turn to analyzing a scene from Arthur Conan Doyle's The Sign of the Four to understand an influential way in which psychoactive drug use has been imagined in Western culture. In the second unit, we will examine the stereotypical images of the psychoactive drug user in classic texts from Sigmund Freud, Aldous Huxley, and others. To do so, we will draw on Edward Said's notion of "orientalism"—the long-running colonialist representation of non-European peoples as passive, irrational, part of nature, and in need of Western control. In our final unit, we will turn to investigating how the "War on Drugs" has changed the U.S. and Latin America, and consider whether we are currently at a historical watershed in the world's relationship with drugs. Throughout the course, we will also explore the practice of meditation, both to consider what has become a powerful alternative in our culture to psychoactive substance use and to better understand our own minds and cultivate concentration and equanimity.
Additional Course Attributes