Expository Writing 20 Section: 202 Expository Writing 20 (116353)
Jerusha Achterberg
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Department
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
MW 1100 AM - 1159 AM 15
control efforts. In Unit 3, students will conduct their own research on a controversial modern public health issue of their choice, and consider how the larger tension between the individual and the population is manifested in the student's particular selected public health controversy.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  Expository Sectioning
 Expository Writing 20 Sectioning
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
             An intensive seminar that aims to improve each student's ability to discover and reason about evidence through the medium of essays. Each section focuses on a particular theme or topic, described on the Expos Website. All sections give students practice in formulating questions, analyzing both primary and secondary sources and properly acknowledging them, supporting arguments with strong and detailed evidence, and shaping clear, lively
 essays. All sections emphasize
Topic:
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
revision.
Paradox in Public Health
Students must pass one term of Expository Writing 20 to meet the College's Expository Writing requirement.
What happens when public health efforts to improve the wellbeing of a population undermine the wellbeing of individuals in that population? Can this outcome be avoided? Public health is characterized by the implications of this fundamental paradox: the health needs of a population are often at odds with the health needs of the very individuals who comprise that population. How does this larger paradox play out across various public health campaigns? In this class, we will use scientific articles to consider potential paradoxes in public health, both historical and contemporary. In Unit 1, we will wrestle with issues of current vaccination requirements, and consider the intersection of personal choice versus societal responsibility using current MMR (measles, mumps and rubella) vaccines. In Unit 2, students will debate the nature of public health motivation and practice— who decides what existing public health needs are? Two case studies will guide this discussion: goiter—a successfully eliminated (but now reemerging!) disease of micronutrient deficiency—and ongoing tobacco- control efforts. In Unit 3, students will conduct their own research on a controversial modern public health issue of their choice, and consider how the larger tension between the individual and the population is manifested in the student's particular selected public health controversy.
Additional Course Attributes:
  Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
     HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
   FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 NonExpository Writing 20 Section: 202 Expository Writing 20 (116353)
Jerusha Achterberg
2017 Fall (4 Credits) Schedule: MW 1100 AM - 1159 AM Instructor Permissions: Department Enrollment Cap: 15
An intensive seminar that aims to improve each student's ability to discover and reason about evidence through the medium of essays. Each section focuses on a particular theme or topic, described on the Expos Website. All sections give students practice in formulating questions, analyzing both primary and secondary sources and properly acknowledging them, supporting arguments with strong and detailed evidence, and shaping clear, lively essays. All sections emphasize revision.
Topic: Paradox in Public Health
Course Notes: Students must pass one term of Expository Writing 20 to meet the College's
Expository Writing requirement.
Class Notes: What happens when public health efforts to improve the wellbeing of a population undermine the wellbeing of individuals in that population? Can
this outcome be avoided? Public health is characterized by the implications of this fundamental paradox: the health needs of a population are often at odds with the health needs of the very individuals who comprise that population. How does this larger paradox play out across various public health campaigns? In this class, we will use scientific articles to consider potential paradoxes in public health, both historical and contemporary. In Unit 1, we will wrestle with issues of current vaccination requirements, and consider the intersection of personal choice versus societal responsibility using current MMR (measles, mumps and rubella) vaccines. In Unit 2, students will debate the nature of public health motivation and practice— who decides what existing public health needs are? Two case studies will guide this discussion: goiter—a successfully eliminated (but now reemerging!) disease of micronutrient deficiency—and ongoing tobacco- control efforts. In Unit 3, students will conduct their own research on a controversial modern public health issue of their choice, and consider how the larger tension between the individual and the population is manifested in the student's particular selected public health controversy.
Additional Course Attributes