Expository Writing 40 Section: 004 Public Speaking Practicum (125227)
Katharine Clarke
2018 Spring (4 Credits) Schedule: MW 0100 PM - 0259 PM Instructor Permissions: Instructor Enrollment Cap: 30
Expos 40 is an elective within the Writing Program, and focuses on developing and strengthening the skills necessary for successful public speaking. Students learn strategies for impromptu speaking, preparing and delivering presentations, formulating and organizing persuasive arguments, cultivating critical thinking, engaging with an audience, using the voice and body, and building confidence in oral expression.
Admission is by application only. Limited to 30 students per section (60 total).
Please visit the <a href="https://canvas.harvard.edu/courses/10200">Expos 40 Canvas site</a> for application information.
Expos 40 is an elective within the Writing Program, and focuses on developing and strengthening the skills necessary for successful public speaking. Students learn strategies for impromptu speaking, preparing and delivering presentations, formulating and organizing persuasive arguments, cultivating critical thinking, engaging with an audience, using the voice and body, and building confidence in oral expression. Admission is by application. Limited to 15 students per section.
For all questions related to Expos 40, please contact Margie Zohn at margie@zohncoaching.com.
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
Additional Course AttributesExpository Writing 40 Section: 004 Public Speaking Practicum (125227)
2017 Fall (4 Credits) Schedule: Instructor Permissions: Instructor Enrollment Cap:
MW 0100 PM - 0259 PM 30
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
         Expos 40 is an elective within the Writing Program, and focuses on developing and strengthening the skills necessary for successful public speaking. Students learn strategies for impromptu speaking, preparing and delivering presentations, formulating and organizing persuasive arguments, cultivating critical thinking, engaging with an audience, using the voice and body, and building confidence in oral expression.
Admission is by application only. Limited to 30 students per section (60 total).
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
Please visit the <a href="https://canvas.harvard.edu/courses/10200">Expos 40 Canvas site</a> for application information.
Expos 40 is an elective within the Writing Program, and focuses on developing and strengthening the skills necessary for successful public speaking. Students learn strategies for impromptu speaking, preparing and delivering presentations, formulating and organizing persuasive arguments,
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Additional Course Attributes