Financilization: The Rise of Finance in Economic Life (205275)
Gru Han
2018 Spring (4 Credits) Schedule: Instructor Permissions: None Enrollment Cap:
TR 1200 PM - 1259 PM n/a
This course surveys the origins and consequences of financialization. The 20th century witnessed a fundamental change in economic life: the rise of finance. Finance constituted about 7% of U.S. business profits in the mid-1940s but in the early 2000s, prior to the financial meltdown, it was about 40%. Large non-financial firms such as Macy's, Target, Ford, and General Electric earn a significant portion of their profits from financial channels like interest, dividends, and financial gain. In 1980, only 6% of U.S. households had mutual fund accounts, but that number increased to 50% by 2008. Finance became larger in size in the economy, transformed the decision making process in corporations, altered the way the economy grows, and is shaping the ways individuals think, work, save, buy houses, and retire. This course examines the rise of finance and discusses its contribution to the financial meltdown in 2008. It also explores the long-term ramifications of financialization with respect to economic growth, employment, and income inequality. This course will train students to critically assess the phenomenon utilizing recent studies and will tackle following questions:- How can we define financialization? Is it a new phase of
capitalism?-
financialization?-
inequality?-
work in tandem with globalization? Can we observe financialization in other industrialized countries?- What can we do to fix the social problems caused by financialization?This course employs a sociological approach to these questions while incorporating studies from multiple perspectives including economics and finance.
How did it contribute to the economic crisis in 2008?- What are the causes of
What are the consequences of financialization? How does it affect the labor market and
How are American households and corporations financialized?- How does financialization
Additional Course Attributes:
Sociology 17