French 91R
Supervised Reading and Research (113533)
Sylvaine Guyot
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: None
Schedule: TBD Enrollment Cap: n/a
Tutorial supervision of research on subjects not treated in regular courses.
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
Additional Course Attributes:
French 91French 91R
Supervised Reading and Research (113533)
Sylvaine Guyot
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Instructor
Schedule: TBD Enrollment Cap: n/a
Limited to juniors and seniors. Students wishing to enroll must petition the Undergraduate Adviser in French for approval, stating the proposed project, and must have the consent of the proposed instructor. Ordinarily, students are required to have taken some coursework in the area as background for their project. May not be taken more than twice, and only once for concentration credit.
This course is taught by members of the Department.
Limited to juniors and seniors. Students wishing to enroll must petition the Undergraduate Adviser in French for approval, stating the proposed project, and must have the consent of the proposed instructor. Ordinarily, students are required to have taken some coursework in the area as background for their project. May not be taken more than twice, and only once for concentration credit.
Verena Conley and members of the Department
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanities
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  HCOL: Foreign Lang Citation
 French
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
           Tutorial supervision of research on subjects not treated in regular courses.
Course Notes: Limited to juniors and seniors. Students wishing to enroll must petition the Undergraduate Adviser in French for approval, stating the proposed project,
and must have the consent of the proposed instructor. Ordinarily, students are required to have taken some coursework in the area as background for
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Additional Course Attributes:
French 9