Freshman Seminar 71F
The Origins of the Human Mind (205222)
Susan Carey
2018 Spring (4 Credits) Schedule: TBD Instructor Permissions: Instructor Enrollment Cap: 12
The adult human mind is a unique phenomenon on earth. Only people can ponder the causes of and cures for global warming or pancreatic cancer, and can think thoughts about molecules, genes, democracy... Animals, and
human infants, do not have most of the 500,000 concepts expressed by words in English. How does the human mind work, and how can we understand how it came to be, with its vast repertoire of concepts from which we routinely compose thoughts? In this seminar, we will explore together the origins and development of human knowledge in the individual child, in relation to two larger time scales: biological evolution and historical/cultural development. We will begin with several case studies, including case studies of the origin of the concepts natural number and living being. Each case study illustrates how all of the disciplines within the cognitive sciences, as well as anthropological, archeological and historical disciplines, shed light on these issues. The main focus will be on experimental work from psychology. We will then turn to case studies chosen by the participants in the seminar. By the end, seminar students will have a grasp of the theoretical debates about the nature of the human mind that have animated philosophy since the time of the Greek philosophers, as well as why considerations of the origins of the mind were always seen as central to these debates. Students taking this seminar should have an interest in learning about the cognitive sciences, which draw primarily from linguistics, analytic philosophy, computer science, and experimental psychology.
Requirements: Course open to Freshman Students Only Additional Course Attributes:
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
        HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
General Education Subject: Culture & Belief
Culture & Belief 1