Freshman Seminar
Amateur Athletics (120400)
Harry Lewis
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions:
49Y
Instructor
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
W 0100 PM - 0259 PM 12
The study of sports as a lens through which to explore social and ethical paradoxes of American life. Where did the amateur ideal come from, and does it make sense today? The history of athletics in ancient Greece, Victorian England, and America. College, Olympic, and professional athletics. Athletic competition as a social, spiritual, educational, and commercial institution. The relation to the amateur ideal of recent trends in higher education,
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
including democratization, internationalization, and rising cost. Requirements: Presentations in class based on weekly reading and current events; 10-page research paper due at the end of the course, with a draft due earlier. The research project will be on a topic of the student's choosing related to the history and development of college sports. Students will learn to use the Harvard Archives, where in past years students in this seminar have uncovered fascinating, untold stories about Harvard's place in sports history.
Course Notes:
Requirements:
Additional Course Attributes:
Freshman Seminar 50C
Requirements: Short papers based on weekly readings and targeted questions, and one 10-page research paper due at the end of the course, with a draft due earlier. The research project will be on a topic of the student's choosing related to the history and development of college sports. Students will learn to use the Harvard Archives, where in previous years students in this seminar have uncovered fascinating, untold stories about Harvard's place in sports history. Students should also expect to be active discussants and engaged followers of current events, calling relevant news stories to the attention of their fellow students.
Course open to Freshman Students Only
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Non