Freshman Seminar 21I
Evolution, Buddhism, and Ethics (109916)
John Wakeley
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Instructor
Course open to Freshman Students Only
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
         Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
M 0300 PM - 0459 PM 12
Evolutionary genetics traces back to Darwin's (1859) idea of natural selection. Darwin provided a compelling theory about how species change due to competition in reproducing populations, yet it remains difficult to understand, particularly when applied to ourselves. To enable critical evaluation and discussion of ethical questions and to illustrate connections between science and Buddhism, about one third of this course will cover select details of evolutionary genetics. The focus will be on understanding human genetic variation. Buddhism originated with Siddhartha Gautama's enlightenment around 500 BCE, achieved after six years of intense devotion to the problem of human suffering. He emerged as the Buddha, or the Enlightened One, making the bold statement that suffering within each person results from misunderstanding the nature of one's self and its relationship to the ever-changing world. He outlined a program of analytical introspection and meditation, aimed at solving this problem. As with evolutionary genetics, critical evaluation and discussion of Buddhist ideas in this course will be fostered by learning the details of what the Buddha taught. Major points of overlap between evolutionary genetics and Buddhism emerge in the ways they undermine appearances, deconstructing phenomena which at first appear wholly unbreakable. We will bring our knowledge of Buddhism to bear on ethical questions arising from genetic testing, the use of human embryos in research, and the prospects for human genetic engineering.
Course Notes: Open to Freshmen only.
Requirements: Course open to Freshman Students Only Additional Course Attributes:
Freshman Seminar 21