Freshman Seminar 23H
Anatomy and Ethical Transgressions in National Socialism (160215)
Sabine Hildebrandt
2017 Fall (4 Credits) Schedule: R 0300 PM - 0459 PM Instructor Permissions: Instructor Enrollment Cap: 12
This course introduces students to the history and ethics of anatomy, and their relevance for current questions in medicine concerning the human body in life and death. The story of anatomy in National Socialist (NS or Nazi) Germany is an example of ethical transgressions in the anatomical sciences and reveals the complex relationship between anatomists and the Nazi regime. The historic causes of this development will be explored by examining the roots of the biologistic NS ideology in the connections between anatomy, physical anthropology, the global eugenics movement and German racial hygiene. Many anatomists became members of the NS party, while others were persecuted for so-called "racial" and political reasons. An examination of the history of anatomical body procurement from ancient Greece to the 21st century demonstrates the changes of the traditional sources of bodies for anatomical dissection under NS rule, resulting in the use of many bodies of NS victims for anatomical purposes. Anatomical research changed with the exploitation of the rising number of bodies of executed men and women. Case studies of the work of individual anatomists reveal a gradual shift in the paradigm of anatomy. A few anatomists left the traditional paradigm- i.e. the gain of anatomical knowledge through work with the dead- in favor of a new paradigm- i.e. work with the "future dead"- in human experiments on prisoners who were subsequently murdered. Ultimately, anatomists became complicit with the government through their role in the complete destruction of the perceived "enemies" of the NS regime.
Course Notes: Open to Freshmen only.
Requirements: Course open to Freshman Students Only Additional Course Attributes:
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
         Freshman Seminar 23