Freshman Seminar 36S
Comparative Historical Mythology (109498)
Michael Witzel
2017 Fall (4 Credits) HARVARD UNIVERSITY
Schedule:
R 0400 PM - 0559 PM
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Instructor Permissions: Instructor Enrollment Cap: 12
This seminar will deal with an innovative approach to comparative Mythology, detailed in my 700 pp. book on the topic (OUP, Dec. 2012). Comparative mythology has been a well-trodden but controversial field since at least 1800. The proposed seminar will discuss the matter in a new way by incorporating an historical approach, which has so far been lacking. The two most prominent explanations for the wide-spread, worldwide similarities in myths have been archetypes (C.G. Jung) and diffusion (L. Frobenius / H. Baumann). Both approaches are inadequate to explain these similarities. Approaching myths historically, and working backwards from our earliest written sources (Egypt, Mesopotamia, Levant, India, China, Maya, etc.), earlier stages in the development of mythologies can be detected through successive reconstructions. These are supported by the additional testimony of oral texts found across the globe. Further, recent developments in human population genetics as well as in archaeology, anthropology and comparative linguistics sustain the proposed historical model, which ultimately, but rather tentatively, reaches back to the time of the "African Eve." This seminar will investigate the ways myths have been compared in the past; further, the underlying assumptions about human spirituality and religion, as well as available scientific evidence for such models. The new historical and comparative proposal will be tested against this evidence. All of this offers a wide scope for students' class room intervention and individual research in a multitude of ancient and oral texts (in translations) from a variety of languages as well as in the sciences.
Requirements:
Additional Course Attributes:
Course open to Freshman Students Only
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
         Freshman Semina