Freshman Seminar 70R
Beachhead for Radicalism or Bastion of the Elite Establishment? American Higher Education (204933)
Julie Reuben
2017 Fall (4 Credits) Schedule: W 0100 PM - 0359 PM Instructor Permissions: Instructor Enrollment Cap: 12
Beachhead for Radicalism or Bastion of the Elite Establishment? Politics and History of American Higher Education
When colleges and universities are in the news, it's often related to politics. Headlines feature students who shout down controversial speakers or professors who only present liberal ideas in their classrooms or universities that fire professors whose tweets anger donors. The public is interested in these stories because the stakes are high. Colleges and universities teach the people who are going to be the next generation of leaders. What if those people are indoctrinated with bad ideas or are not taught to how to behave in democracy? Faculty members are the
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
         HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
country's experts. What if they do not provide reliable information? As experts should their views count more those of average citizens? Colleges and universities are supported with tax dollars and private donations and tuition payments. Who are they accountable to? Higher education is inextricably linked to politics but we do not have consensus about key questions such as: Should colleges and universities take positions on political issues? Can faculty advocate for political causes in their scholarship, public appearances and classrooms? Do students have political rights? This seminar will explore how these questions have been debated and resolved over time. We will be examine three periods in which national crises raised these questions with particular urgency: the 1830s-1850s (slavery and anti-slavery), the 1910s (World War I) and the 1960s (Vietnam War, Racial Equality, Student's rights). These historical cases will help us think more clearly about the present, another period of political strife effecting American higher education.
Requirements: Course open to Freshman Students Only Additional Course Attributes:
Freshman Seminar 70