Freshman Seminar 40D
The Transformation of Marketing (160713)
Elie Ofek
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Instructor
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
T 0300 PM - 0459 PM 12
Marketing, as you will find in this seminar, refers to the set of activities needed to form and sustain a healthy business by fostering meaningful exchanges between the organization and its chosen customers. Marketing helps create value for consumers and extract a share of that value for the organization. We will spend time understanding
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
the fundamentals of marketing management and examine how recent economic, technological, cultural, and societal developments have affected the marketing field. We will first cover the central themes of customer behavior, strategic marketing analysis, innovation forecasting, and brand management. Then we will explore how marketing has dramatically evolved in recent years due to: the digital and social-media revolution; firms' desire to globalize and the cross-cultural challenges this entails; the increasingly consumer-oriented healthcare setting; and societal trends calling on companies to exhibit greater social responsibility. We will close the seminar by examining issues of marketing leadership. In examining these themes, we will draw upon research from the domains of psychology, sociology and economics. Each session will have assigned pre-readings that may include book chapters, articles, case studies, and exercises. The discussion and material covered in class will rely upon these readings. During the term each student will identify a marketing phenomenon they find intriguing and that reflects concepts covered in class. Students will prepare a one-page summary of this business phenomenon and communicate it in a short presentation. The final paper for the course requires students to analyze a case study and turn in a short write up.
Requirements: Course open to Freshman Students Only Additional Course Attributes:
Freshman Seminar 40