Freshman Seminar 34X
Language and Prehistory (117406)
Jay Jasanoff
2017 Fall (4 Credits) Schedule: M 0200 PM - 0459 PM Instructor Permissions: Instructor Enrollment Cap: 12
It was discovered around 1800 that the major languages of Europe, along with the ancient languages of India and Iran, were descended from an unattested parent, formerly known as "Aryan" or "Indo-Germanic," but today usually called Proto-Indo-European. The identification of the Indo-European family raised many questions, some purely linguistic (e.g., what was Proto-Indo-European like; was it grammatically complex or "primitive"?), and some more far-reaching (e.g., who were the speakers of Proto-Indo-European; why did Indo-European languages spread so widely?). Questions of the first type eventually led to the birth of the new academic field of linguistics. Questions of the second type, however, misled some nineteenth- and early twentieth-century intellectuals to posit a genetically and culturally superior Aryan "race." Although this idea is now universally rejected, linguistic evidence still plays an important role in studies of the past. Recent debates about the origins of "Western civilization," for example, center on the alleged presence of borrowed Egyptian words in Greek, while theories about the settlement of the Americas depend on supposed linguistic connections between the New World and other continents. This seminar will explore the use and misuse of such methods. What, if anything, does the fact that languages are related tell us about their speakers? How can we distinguish genuine cases of linguistic borrowing or "influence" from the kinds of resemblances that come about through pure chance? Answers to these and similar questions will be sought through case studies, with readings chosen to illustrate and contrast scholarly and unscholarly approaches. The work for the course will consist of readings, four or five short problem sets, and a final project with both written and oral components.
Requirements: Course open to Freshman Students Only Additional Course Attributes:
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
         Freshman Seminar 35