Freshman Seminar 61I
Heretics, Gangsters, Writers (204931)
Saul Zaritt
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Instructor
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
W 0300 PM - 0459 PM 12
Prophets gone rogue, rabbis trained as thieves, false messiahs, condemned heretics, synagogue-going gangsters, and writers lost between languages and cultures—these are only a handful of the sinful yet compelling characters
that appear in texts written by Jews over the past three millennia. This seminar examines the ways in which such figures challenged the norms of collective Jewish practice by walking the boundaries between Jewish and non- Jewish worlds. We will read famous scenes of transgression in the Bible—from Eve in the garden of Eden to the
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
"heresy" of Jesus—and continue on to stories of rabbis gone mad, early modern false messiahs, and excommunicated philosophers. Works to be discussed include the writings of Sholem Aleichem, Franz Kafka, Philip Roth, and Art Spiegelman, films by the Coen Brothers, and music by Bob Dylan and Leonard Cohen. We will talk about how these artists struggled to simultaneously embody and escape their Jewishness, often by viewing this lost, rejected, and regained tradition in radical terms. This often meant that these sinners and saints would ask troubling questions that challenged stable Jewish communal narratives while also imagining the possibility of new utopias and dystopias. What was the goal of such boundary-crossing? Did they simply want to sin for sinning's sake? Why is it that, paradoxically, the words of these sinners—however embedded in the dark pessimism of transgression—often appear to open the door to salvation?
Course Notes:
Requirements:
Additional Course Attributes:
Freshman Seminar 61J
The course will include a required trip to the Yiddish Book Center in Amherst, MA and a special meeting with Art Spiegelman (the creator of Maus) during his visit to campus in the fall.
Course open to Freshman Students Only
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Non