German 231 Section: 1 Schwarze Romantik (203225)
Nicole Suetterlin
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Instructor
Schedule: TBD Enrollment Cap: 30
Readings in German, discussions in English. Qualified undergraduates welcome.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Graduate Students
       The term "Schwarze Romantik" ("Dark Romanticism"), coined by Mario Praz in the 1930s, denotes a wide range of European literatures that draw on gothic motifs such as monsters, violence, and eroticism. Before and since Praz, the notion of a deviant Romantic literature has informed a number of fascinating aesthetic theories from Ästhetik des Hässlichen (Rosenkranz) to Ästhetik des Horrors (Brittnacher), Ästhetik des Ekels (Menninghaus), and Ästhetik des Schmerzes (Borgards). Focusing on German texts around 1800, this course explores "schwarzromantische" literature and its cultural implications. What larger epistemic shifts is this literature symptomatic of? Schwarze Romantik, thus our working hypothesis, is inextricably linked with developments such as the emergence of new sciences around 1800 (anthropology, biology, psychology, psychiatry), changes in penal law and the concomitant rise of criminology, shifts in societal and political systems in the wake of the French Revolution, the advent of new media, and last but not least, the rise of experimental and characteristically 'modern' aesthetics. We also explore German Romanticism's relation to 18th-century aesthetics (Bodmer/Breitinger) and its impact on other literatures and arts (Poe, Baudelaire, surrealism), on 20th-century critical theory (Benjamin, Bakhtin, Foucault, de Man), psychoanalysis (Freud), media history (Kittler), and political theory (Carl Schmitt). Authors include Goethe, Schiller, Moritz, Novalis, Arnim, Brentano, Hoffmann, Tieck, Kleist, Büchner.
Course Notes: Readings and discussions in German. Open to undergraduates with permission of instructor.
Additional Course Attributes:
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanities
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
      HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
 German 233 Section: 