Gut Reactions: Discovering Chemistry from the Human Microbiota (203461)
Emily Balskus
2018 Spring (4 Credits) Schedule: T 0230 PM - 0529 PM Instructor Permissions: Instructor Enrollment Cap: 12
The human gut is colonized by trillions of microorganisms that exert a profound influence on our health. Notably, the chemical capabilities of gut microbes extend beyond those found in our own cells, playing roles in nutrition, directing immune system development, and protecting against pathogens. However, we still do not understand how the vast majority of this microbial chemistry actually takes place, which stands in stark contrast to our knowledge of human physiology. The aim of this laboratory-based seminar is to expose students to a cutting-edge area of research at the interface of chemistry and microbiology. Over the course of a semester, students will work as a team to design and implement an experimental approach for discovering new enzymes from human gut microbes. Potential targets include enzymes involved in antibiotic resistance, metabolism of dietary components and pharmaceuticals, and modification of host metabolites. Students will pursue these goals in a fully equipped laboratory dedicated to undergraduate research. Course meetings will combine time in the lab with discussion of research literature and experimental techniques. Students will also have flexible access to the teaching laboratory to continue their experiments outside of the hours scheduled for the seminar. By having the opportunity to both explore a timely scientific problem and to drive the direction of their own research at a very early stage in their academic experience, students in this seminar will be extremely well prepared to seek out further undergraduate research opportunities and to pursue scientific career paths.
Requirements: Course open to Freshman Students Only Additional Course Attributes:
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
         Freshman Seminar 50