Humanities 11A
The Art of Looking (109854)
Jennifer L. Roberts
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Instructor
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
T 1130 AM - 1259 PM 90
Visual information today is superabundant thanks to our smartphones, tablets, and other screen-based gadgets. But few of us recognize how thoroughly our habits and experiences of looking have been conditioned by interfaces with long and complex histories. Participants in this course, developed as part of the Humanities Project at Harvard, will approach looking through a consideration of key technologies from its history, such as the telescope, the cinema, and the easel painting. Students will learn about the hidden intricacies of looking and hone skills of visual, material, and spatial analysis through encounters with aesthetic objects from Harvard's collections.
Course Notes: This course, when taken for a letter grade, meets the General Education requirement for Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding. This course fulfills
the requirement that one of the eight General Education courses also
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Class Notes:
Additional Course Attributes:
engage substantially with Study of the Past. Students are expected to attend a weekly two-hour section.
If student interest exceeds the course limit, a random lottery will be conducted. To enter the lottery, you must add the course to your Crimson Cart and explicitly request enrollment permission when prompted. Instructor permission will be granted to only those admitted by the lottery; all students will be notified of their results. See the course website for more details.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: General Education
 Study of the Past
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: General Education
 Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanities
            HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Linguistics Subject: Linguistics
Linguistics 73