Intermediate Russian through Authentic Texts: Russian through Bulgakov II (159659)
Oksana Willis
2018 Spring (4 Credits) Schedule: MWF 0100 PM - 0159 PM Instructor Permissions: None Enrollment Cap: n/a
Part two of a two-part intermediate course in Russian language and culture through reading of what is arguably 20th-century Russia's greatest novel, Mikhail Bulgakov's "The Master and Margarita". This literary and linguistic approach to Intermediate Russian has a strong emphasis on reading authentic Russian, but all four major communicative skills (speaking, listening comprehension, reading, writing) are stressed as students learn to use the language both as a means of communication and as a tool for reading and research. Further development of vocabulary and oral expression within a comprehensive review of Russian grammar. Systematic study of word formation and other strategies are taught to help free students from excessive dependence on the dictionary and develop confidence in reading.
Course Notes:
Part two of a two-part series. Students are strongly encouraged to enroll in Russian BTA in the fall and Russian BTB in the spring within the same academic year.
This course will also meet for two additional hours of speaking practice on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Meeting times for the T-Th practice sections are subject to adjustment based on students' availability. See language course notes on the Slavic Department website for information about sectioning, pass/fail, satisfactory/unsatisfactory, and auditing: https://slavic.fas.harvard.edu/language-course-notes
Any full course in Russian at the B-level (Russian Ba-Bb, Russian BTA-BTB, or Intensive Russian BAB) will prepare students for continued study of Russian at the advanced level (Russian 101) and for study or travel abroad in Russian-speaking countries.
Russian BA or Russian BTA, or placement into BB/BTB. Familiarity with fundamentals of Russian grammar, particularly case endings of the noun, pronoun, and adjective and elementary competence in spoken Russian.
Recommended Prep:
Additional Course Attributes:
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 For Undergraduate and Graduate Students
  FAS: Meets Foreign Lang Req
 Russian
  Full Year Course
 Divisible Course
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanities
  HCOL: Foreign Lang Citation
 Russian
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
                 Russian 10