Islamic Civilizations 170
Islam, Modernity and Politics (109243)
Ousmane Oumar Kane
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Instructor
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
F 1000 AM - 1159 AM 18
Offered jointly with the Divinity School as 3381. No previous study of Islam or Arabic is assumed. Students who previously took Islamic Civilizations 158 [now IC 158x / HDS 3376] may enroll in this course for credit.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 For Undergraduate and Graduate Students
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanities
         The aim of this seminar is to study the evolution of Islamic thought and political practices in Muslim societies from the 19th to the early 21st centuries. Attention will be devoted to the patterns of interaction between the Muslim World and the West because it is our assumption that these patterns contribute to influence ideological formations and modes of religious/political mobilizations in the Muslim World. By the end of the eighteenth century, much of the Muslim World was in "decline" whereas European imperial powers, mainly France and Great Britain, were on the rise. The course will explore the response of Muslim societies and intellectuals to the rise of European prominence. The major 19th century reformist movements that appeared in the Muslim World will be discussed, ranging from movements advocating mild reform to those rejecting all influence of "Western civilization" and advocating a return
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
to the Tradition of Muhammad. In the twentieth century, virtually all the Muslim World came under European colonial domination. During colonial rule and after, the Muslim world experienced major transformations which affected the nature and administration of law, politics and society. It is in this context, that the new Islamic revival that some have called "Islamism" was articulated as an alternative to Westernization. The course will address the rise of contemporary "Islamism," as an alternative to Western domination and modernization/Westernization. The major theorists of political Islam as well as the different trajectories of "Islamism" in diverse Muslim societies will be covered. The impact of political Islam in the West will also be addressed. The final part of the course will assess the trajectories of political Islam and address the ongoing debates on post-Islamism, secularism and modernity.
Course Notes: Offered jointly with the Divinity School as 3368. Class Notes: Enrollment limited to 18.
Additional Course Attributes:
Islamic Civilizations 17