Italian and the Community: Italy. Academic Internships in Italian Language and Culture: Special Crse (124993)
Elvira G. DiFabio
2018 Spring (4 Credits) Schedule: TBD Instructor Permissions: Instructor Enrollment Cap: n/a
An opportunity to engage in the practical applications of Italian language and culture in an immersion environment. Internships may include placement in a variety of sectors, including public education, the media and the arts.
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
Requirements:
Additional Course Attributes:
Italian 96R
Though academic internships may be arranged in the Greater Boston area, this course can be proposed as integral to a study abroad program in Italy, the details of which are to be coordinated in consultation with the course head and the Office of International Education. Students are expected to produce substantial research papers based on relevant class work and field placements. The student, under the guidance of faculty and study abroad advisers, is responsible for arranging the terms of the internship.
This course is taught by members of the Department.
Students must submit a written proposal to Dr. DiFabio by August 31, 2017 for Fall term enrollment and by January 23, 2018 for Spring term enrollment.
Prerequisite: Italian 50
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Meets Foreign Lang Req
 Italian
  HCOL: Foreign Lang Citation
 Italian
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanities
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate StudentItalian and the Community: Italy. Academic Internships in Italian Language and Culture: Special Crse (124993)
Elvira G. DiFabio
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions:
Instructor
Schedule: TBD Enrollment Cap: n/a
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
An opportunity to engage in the practical applications of Italian language and culture in an immersion environment. Internships may include placement in a variety of sectors, including public education, the media and the arts.
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
Requirements:
Additional Course Attributes:
Italian 9