Jefferson and Hamilton: Dueling American Visions (204932)
Annette Gordon-Reed
2017 Fall (4 Credits) Schedule: Instructor Permissions: Instructor Enrollment Cap:
M 0100 PM - 0259 PM 12
It is often said that the United States is a country based upon ideas, rather than blood ties. Shortly after the end of the American Revolution, and during the ratification of the Constitution, it became apparent that the people who had helped to make the Revolution differed about exactly what ideas would define America's experiment in self- government. Two men, Thomas Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton, symbolized the conflicting visions that emerged once the revolutionaries began the business of running a new country. Jefferson was Secretary of State and Hamilton was Secretary of Treasury in Washington's cabinet. They started cordially enough, but their contrasting views about politics and government quickly hardened into personal enmity. Much to President Washington's chagrin, they battled in cabinet meetings and-- through surrogates and pseudonyms—in newspapers. Their clash helped create two-party politics in America, as each man attracted adherents to their respective visions of the future of the United States. Jefferson was the rural "man of the people", anti-British to his core, and supporter of the French Revolution. Hamilton was the urban friend of the elites in society, admirer of the British government, and opponent of the French Revolution. Their arguments about the true nature of American society continue today. This seminar will examine Jefferson and Hamilton as men, the way they fought their battle, and the nature of Jeffersonian and Hamiltonian visions. What did the men and their visions mean at the time, and what do they mean to us today?
Requirements: Course open to Freshman Students Only Additional Course Attributes:
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
         Freshman Seminar 61