Mathematics 23A
Linear Algebra and Real Analysis I (111695)
Paul Bamberg
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Instructor
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
R 0300 PM - 0359 PM 36
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Core Curriculum
 Quantitative Reasoning
  FAS: General Education
 Empirical and Mathematical Reasoning
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Science & Engineering & Applied Science
             Linear algebra: vectors, linear transformations and matrices, scalar and vector products, basis and dimension, eigenvectors and eigenvalues, including an introduction to the R scripting language. Single-variable real analysis:
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
sequences and series, limits and continuity, derivatives, inverse functions, power series and Taylor series. Multivariable real analysis and calculus: topology of Euclidean space, limits, continuity, and differentiation in n dimensions, inverse and implicit functions, manifolds, Lagrange multipliers, path integrals, div, grad, and curl. Emphasis on topics that are applicable to fields such as physics, economics, and computer science, but students are also expected to learn how to prove key results.
Course Notes:
Students are expected to watch videos of the lectures from Fall 2015 before attending class. Weekly two-hour classes will consist of a one-hour seminar in which students present key definitions and proofs and a one-hour activity- based session in which students work in small groups to solve problems. Students are expected to continue in either Mathematics 23b (recommended for students who are thinking of concentrating in mathematics, the physical sciences, or engineering) or Mathematics 23c (recommended for students who are not sure of their concentration, or who are thinking about a concentration in the social sciences, economics, computer science, life sciences or data science). Either alternative will provide a solid foundation for a concentration in mathematics or any field that uses mathematics. This course, when taken for a letter grade, meets the General Education requirement for Empirical and Mathematical Reasoning.
Mathematics 1b or a grade of 4 or 5 on the Calculus BC Advanced Placement Examination, plus an interest both in proving mathematical results and in using them. No background in linear algebra, real analysis, or multivariable calculus is assumed.
Recommended Prep:
Additional Course Attributes