Mind, Brain & Behavior 980L
Dopamine (160758)
Barak Caine
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Instructor
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
W 0400 PM - 0559 PM 18
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Social Sciences
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
         A Parkinson's victim regains control of her body with I-dopa. A schizophrenic man paralyzed by fear and hallucinations is freed from a mental institution by clozapine. A meth addict lies, cheats, and steals, enduing up emaciated and dead. Miracles and monstrosities, all related to a single molecule - dopamine. The overall goal of this tutorial is to focus on a single subject, a single chemical neurotransmitter, and remaining on that topic to
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
proceed through three phases of study, as follows. First, to orient students to tools from multiple traditional disciplines: synaptic mechanisms of neurotransmission, neuropharmacology, behavioral pharmacology, neuroanatomy, and psychiatry. Second, to elicit interest and curiosity through examples of specific and important disease states: Parkinson's Disease, Schizophrenia, and Drug Addiction. Third, to gain an historical perspective up to and including a current and sophisticated consensus (i.e., review articles of recent years). Socratic debate will be prioritized in the classroom. The main discipline presented in this course is pharmacology, specifically, in vivo pharmacology and more specifically, behavioral pharmacology in humans. Pharmacology has traditionally been a graduate-level subject and rarely present in undergraduate curricula. That is a shame, because pharmacology has played and continues to play a key role in the history of neuroscience, in many applications of clinical medicine, and in the relationships among "mind, brain, and behavior." Moreover, students with an interest in medical sciences and careers will find extremely useful the tools and concepts of pharmacology, from elucidating mechanisms of action using basic research, to applications in the clinic using analgesic, antipsychotic, anti-Parkinsonian, stimulant, and anesthetic drugs. My philosophy of teaching is that 70% of the work can be completed in the classroom. I believe the rest can be completed in 1-2 hours per week outside of the classroom. Mostly to study your notes from class together with an outline prepared and distributed by Dr. Caine, and then to complete the semi-weekly writing assignment ("take-home" quizzes, open book, open note, short answer, six assignments in all).
Class Notes: Not open to students who have taken Neurobiology 95hfh or Neurobiology 101hfb. Preference to juniors in MBB tracks or MBB secondary field.
Additional Course Attributes:
Mind, Brain & Behavior 980