Mind, Brain & Behavior 980P Section: 1 The Role of Music in Health and Education (205158)
Lisa Wong
2017 Fall (4 Credits) Schedule: R 0300 PM - 0459 PM Instructor Permissions: Instructor Enrollment Cap: 18
Music shapes the course of human history at both a micro and macro scale; it can make an individual weep and rally crowds of thousands to cheer. The "universal language" has the power to connect people who share no other common ground. Its power to bind people together is intuitively understood, but only through recent neuroimaging advances over the past 50 years have scientists been able to move past intuition to reveal its impact on the brain. Through this course, we will examine the exciting progress of the fields of music and medicine, through a variety of lenses. Who are the key investigators and practitioners in today's emerging music / brain landscape? What are the latest discoveries about how music influences the brain? How does the direct application of music function —how do we hear, how do we listen, and what happens when this process goes wrong? What has music's role been through human history, and where does that bring us today? This course invites the student to deepen his/her relationship with music exploring different aspects of the art form through several perspectives, including neuroscientist, educator, musician, therapist, patient, and healthcare provider. By the end of this course, the learner will (1) understand the effect of music on the developing brain; (2) understand the mechanism of hearing music; (3) consider the pathophysiology of disordered movement and hearing and how music can be used therapeutically; and (4) understand how other disciplines can add educational and neuroscientific knowledge to therapeutic uses of music. Students will be invited to bring their own experiences to the seminar, and to pursue a final independent project, conducting a combination of scientific, historical, education, or psychology research. In the final weeks, they will present their findings to the group in oral, written or musical format. Given the transdisciplinary nature of the work, students will be challenged to read literature from a variety of genres, from lay literature to educational monographs to scientific papers. This will lead to discussion of one of the key questions in interdisciplinary study between the sciences and the arts: how to research and document outcomes. How do we agree on common definitions of research in disparate fields? What constitutes research to a musician? A music therapist? A neuroscientist? A physician? What is proof of success? What can/should be measured?
Course Notes: Preference to juniors in MBB tracks or MBB secondary field. Additional Course Attributes:
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Social Sciences
        HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Molecular and Cellular Biology Subject: Molecular & Cellular Biology
Molecular & Cellular Biology 6