Music 201A Section: 01
Current Methods in Historical Musicology (118075)
Emily Dolan
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: None
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
T 1000 AM - 1159 AM n/a
silence from all the voices. It is a "vocal moment," and it resonates with a vast repertoire of practices of collectively "speaking up" which stretch far beyond our current time and place. This course builds a framework for understanding how a community of voices can come together in singing, chanting, and other modes of musical and vocal performance to shift the flow of a movement, time, idea, protest, or identity. We will take our material from real events, ranging from the 1960s to the present, focusing particular attention on moments outside the rehearsed, refined, and controlled environment of the concert hall. Our case studies will be oriented around elements of performance (skill, repetition), power (identity, race, gender), and the voice itself (language, timbre, and dimension), asking how these elements come together to create consciousness and effect change. Moreover, we'll ask how a collection of voices together can upend our assumptions of the use and influence of each of these elements; we will additionally look at the situations in which these three elements combine, shift, and overlap. Coursework will draw on readings, listening, and issues from the spheres of history, sociology, media studies, political science, cultural studies, cognition, and music.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 For Undergraduate and Graduate Students
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanities
         Introduction to musicological scholarship drawing upon theoretical frameworks, and working methods of historical musicology. Includes aspects of the history of the discipline of musicology, as well as newer methodologies. Students will read relevant theoretical texts from other disciplines and consider the possibilities of interdisciplinary projects within musicology.
Course Notes: Graduate students only. May be taken independently by students from other departments with permission of instructor.
Additional Course Attributes:
Music 201