Music 30
Music, theater and dance of South Asia (204974)
Because of the trip to New York City, enrollment in this class is capped at 15. Students who want to take the course--and have made a firm decision about it--should submit a one-paragraph statement of interest (no more than 250 words), explaining what they hope to gain from the class. Note that the trip (Nov 10-12) is required. Please email by Tuesday, September 5 at 10am to gedgar@g.harvard.edu. We will respond quickly so that you can plan your schedule accordingly.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanities
         Richard Wolf
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions:
Instructor
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
WF 1100 AM - 1159 AM 15
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Music, Theater and Dance of South Asia will focus on the unified arts of South Asia. In ancient times, music was understood as part of a larger unit that included literature, drama, and dance (muttamiḻ in Tamil and sangīta in Sanskrit)—analogous to mousiké in ancient Greece. The course will examine vernacular musical forms ranging from tribal music in South India, to Nepali drumming, to folk song of Northern Pakistan. Part of the course will be devoted to the vigorous literature on classical dance in relation to courtesanship and nationalism. Throughout the course, students will have the opportunity to do at least one assignment involving art-making or critical media practice. The entire class will participate in a set of workshops that constitute the highlight of this first offering: a visit to Harvard of a Kudiyattam troupe. Kudiyattam is the only living Sanskrit theater form today, found in the South Indian state of Kerala and normally performed for multiple days in connection with temple festivals. A UNESCO masterpiece of the oral and intangible heritage of humanity, Kudiyattam is rarely seen outside of India. Students in this class will learn to perform a little bit of abhinaya (conventional facial and bodily expressions), basic postures for standing and sitting, and transitions from one persona to another. If the students are inspired to do so, they may include a brief performance inspired by this visit (and the other course materials) in their final projects.
Additional Course Attributes:
Music 51