Music 18A
Harvard Jazz Band (000018)
Yosvany Terry
2017 Fall (2 Credits)
Instructor Permissions:
Audition required. The course is graded SAT/UNSAT based on attendance and participation. This course may be taken repeatedly, but to receive credit the course must be taken in the Fall and Spring semesters consecutively. A maximum of four semesters (two years) may be counted as credit towards the degree.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanities
  Full Year Course
 Indivisible Course
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
             Instructor
Schedule:
Enrollment Cap:
W 0715 PM - 0814 PM M 0715 PM - 0915 PM 30
The Harvard Jazz Band was created in 1971 by Director of Bands Tom Everett when he first arrived at the University. Passionate that exposure to this unique American art form be part ofstudents' education, he created a rag-tag jazz band of primarily Harvard [marching] Bandrecruits. Since its inception, the Harvard Jazz band has served as the vehicle for students across disciplines to study and learn the jazz canon. Over the years, the Jazz Band has focused on the literature of Duke Ellington and complete retrospective concerts of the music of Charles
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Mingus, Charlie Parker, Gerry Mulligan, Lee Konitz, Benny Carter, Buck Clayton, Clark Terry, J. J. Johnson, and Julius Hemphill. Other literature has ranged from the classic arrangements of Count Basie and Fletcher Henderson to the modern jazz of Gil Evans and Charles Mingus, the contemporary ensemble improvisations of Barry Guy and Lester Bowie, and the jazz-rock of Michael Gibbs, Russ Gershon Harvard '81, Rufus Reid, George Cables and Cassandra Wilson. In 2015, Yosvany Terry was appointed Director of Jazz Bands. Under his direction, the Harvard Jazz Band continues this tradition of focusing on a program of study that provides students with a grounding in a wide range of iconic and new literature.
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
The course is graded SAT/UNSAT based on attendance and participation. This course may be taken repeatedly, but to receive credit the course must be taken in the Fall and Spring semesters consecutively. A maximum of four semesters (two years) may be counted as credit towards the degree.
This year, the Harvard Jazz Band will prepare for its four annual concerts and two jazz master residencies. The Fall residency will include Grammy- Award winner, composer, drummer extraordinaire and Guggenheim Fellow, Jeff Watts. During the Spring the visiting master will be Grammy-Award winner, composer and world activist, Angelique Kidjo. The Jazz Band will perform the repertoire of some of the Jazz masters such as Thad Jones, Oliver Nelson and Benny Golson during the Montage concert in collaboration with the Harvard Wind Ensemble, the Harvard Band and the Sunday Jazz band at Sanders Theater on October 14. During the fall residency, the band will perform the music of Jeff "Tain" Watts in a concert at Lowell Hall on November 11. Looking ahead to the spring residency the band will perform the music of Angelique Kidjo and Celia Cruz at Sanders Theater on April 14. The last two concerts of the year will be the at Art First Festival at the end of April and the annual "Swing Dance" at the Sheraton Commander Hotel in Cambridge.
An audition is required to become a member of the HUJB. Auditions will be hold at the OFA rehearsal space during the first week of September. For more information please visit the HUJB website http://harvardjazzbands.com or the OFA website https://ofa.fas.harvard.edu/arts under Harvard Jazz Band audition information.
Class Notes:
Additional Course Attributes:
Music 2