Music 20
Opera (204418)
Carolyn Abbate
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: None
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
TR 1100 AM - 1159 AM n/a
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanities
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
         This new lecture course will explore opera, a theatrical genre with a 400-year history, which is still a living and vibrant art. Opera has always been multimedia: Its marvelous singing, and its music, is shaped by drama, by characters, visual spectacles in staging, and theater architecture and machinery. Operatic performance, by engaging and even overwhelming multiple senses, challenges us to question intellectual truisms like critical detachment, sober analysis. Opera has always inspired intense passion in audiences. For some, it is the most beautiful and moving musical genre that has ever existed. For others, it can involve tedium and acoustic
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
strangeness. Opera's special acoustic is defined by its singers, who are often called "gods" ("divas" and "divos"), with voices that are the most powerful unamplified human sonic force in existence. We will look at opera as it evolved over time from its origins in Italy into a global phenomenon, considering works by famous composers (including Mozart, Wagner, and Verdi) as well as obscure corners and byways. Students will be experiencing live opera performances (in class and on field trips), and opera as technological art in recordings, film, and other media. No previous music courses, no expertise in music theory or ability to read music, are required.
Course Notes:
Additional Course Attributes:
Music 21
No previous music courses, no expertise in music theory or ability to read music, are required. This course, when taken for a letter grade, meets the General Education requirement for Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanities
  FAS: General Education
 Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registratio