NELC Doctoral Colloquium: Research, Resources and Pedagogy (203473) HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanities
         
Shady Nasser
2017 Fall (2 Credits) Schedule: T 0500 PM - 0659 PM Instructor Permissions: Instructor Enrollment Cap: 30
This practical colloquium addresses major issues of research and teaching competence. Designed to introduce graduate students to the Ph.D. requirements, to methodological issues and examples of ongoing scholarship in NELC, it further offers opportunity for reflection on the art of teaching (leading discussion sections, designing syllabi, giving lectures, etc.). Questions covered will include: How to choose coursework? How to prepare for qualifying and general exams? What are the challenges of language training? How does one prepare and write a prospectus? How to use the library resources most efficiently? What type of investment does recourse to digital and quantitative methodology require? How best to prepare for professional life after the Ph.D., both inside and outside of academia? In addition, NELC faculty will informally present their respective fields (main issues and methods), in broad strokes through their current research, and advanced Ph.D. students will present their prospectus for discussion and feedback before submitting it to the faculty.
NEC 299A/299B is designed as a year-long course. Students should plan to complete both terms of this course (parts A and B) within the same academic year.
Note: The Doctoral Colloquium will meet throughout the academic year (fall and spring semesters) once every other week. Sessions designed specifically for G1-G2 students, or alternatively, for G3-G4 students (and until approval of the prospectus) will be clearly tagged; assessment (SAT/UNSAT) will be based on attendance of a targeted number of sessions for each level. Required of all NELC G1 and G3 students.
NEC 299A/299B is designed as a year-long course. Students should plan to complete both terms of this course (parts A and B) within the same academic year.
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
Additional Course Attributes:
Near Eastern Civilizations 299