None
         The Art, Science and Technology of Glass (202997)
David Clarke
2017 Fall (4 Credits) Schedule: Instructor Permissions: Instructor Enrollment Cap:
M 0300 PM - 0459 PM 12
Glass is ubiquitous in our daily lives so it may be easy to forget what a remarkable material it is. It allows the passage of light and yet sequesters heat. Able to be colored and shaped, glass has been used for millennia as an aesthetic medium, whether in jewelry, stained glass windows, such as in Memorial Hall, and in the modern glass sculpture of artists such as Dale Chihuly. Glass has transformed the way we can view the world, through microscopes, telescopes or eye-glasses. Glass formed into fibers serves as the basis for modern telecommunications and glass can play a role in solar energy engineering. At a larger scale, glass is now also a substance for architectural expression. Glass is a material for all ages and all seasons, a material that can be plastic as well as brittle, a material that can be manufactured at the nanoscale and yet cast in sheets. Using a combination of readings, experimental exploration and discovery, students will have the opportunity to learn why glass is so unusual and how it has profoundly changed Society in many ways. The basis for many of its unusual properties, as well as its ability to be formed into complex shapes, will be illustrated by experimenting on the origins of color, the dichotomy between its plasticity and brittleness, its optical properties as well as its crystallization behavior. Many of these experiments also illustrate some of the essential elements of modern materials science and engineering. Each class will include readings describing the historical, artistic or scientific basis for the individual topics. Students will also undertake a research project culminating in a final, preferably video presentation.
Requirements: Course open to Freshman Students Only Additional Course Attributes:
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
    HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
   FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
    Freshman Seminar 50