Organismic & Evolutionary Biol 200
The Evolution of Stem Cells and Regeneration (204479)
  Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Course Level
 For Undergraduate and Graduate Students
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Science & Engineering & Applied Science
          Mansi Srivastava
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions:
Instructor
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
W 0100 PM - 0259 PM 20
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Among the many unique challenges that multicellular organisms face relative to unicellular ones is how they deal with the death (or loss) of a part of the organism. Should the organism heal and continue life without the missing part, or should it regrow that part? The vast majority of animal (and plant) lineages have species that will replace the missing portion, i.e., they are capable of regeneration. Despite the phylogenetically widespread nature of regeneration, very little is known about any universal cellular, molecular and genetic principles, if any, that control this process. In pursuit of these principles, the course will delve into the literature from a diverse range of species. We will focus on stem cells, which enable the production of new cells that reconstitute the missing tissues. First, we will address what it means to be a stem cell. We will explore how molecular studies of adult stem cells in species ranging from jellyfish to humans are revealing essential and highly evolutionarily conserved molecular mechanisms for stem cells. Second, we will compare the features of adult stem cells to those of other multipotent cells, such as early embryonic cells. Third, we will consider how different species maintain pluripotent stem cells versus those with restricted potential, i.e., lineage-restricted stem cells. We will explore these ideas through the critical reading of the primary literature, including both classical and very recent papers in stem cell biology. Students will obtain a deep understanding of the main concepts and methods concerning the study of stem cells and will become familiar with comparative approaches as applied to stem cell biology and regeneration.
Course Notes: Course is open both to graduate students and to undergraduates who have taken LS1a and LS1b, LS50, or SCRB10, or by permission from the
instructor.
Additional Course Attributes:
Organismic & Evolutionary Biol 20