Physics 16
Mechanics and Special Relativity (111197)
Howard Georgi Carey Witkov Keith Zengel
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: None
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
TR 1130 AM - 1259 PM n/a
Newtonian mechanics and special relativity for students with good preparation in physics and mathematics at the level of the advanced placement curriculum. Topics include oscillators damped and driven and resonance (how to rock your car out of a snow bank or use a swing), an introduction to Lagrangian mechanics and optimization, symmetries and Noether's theorem, special relativity, collisions and scattering, rotational motion, angular momentum, torque, the moment of inertia tensor (dynamic balance), gravitation, planetary motion and a little glimpse of quantum mechanics.
Course Notes:
Recommended Prep:
Principles of Scientific Inquiry (PSI) is the laboratory component of Physics 16. Topics include experimental design, model testing, error analysis, basic programming, oral presentations, and scientific writing. PSI will meet weekly throughout the semester. Emphasis is placed on collaborative teaching and learning. Many class materials are Mathematics notebooks. This course, when taken for a letter grade, meets the General Education requirement for Science of the Physical Universe or Empirical and Mathematical Reasoning, but not both.
Score of 5 on the mechanics section of the Physics C Advanced Placement exam, or equivalent. Mathematics preparation at least at the level of
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Additional Course Attributes:
Mathematics 21a taken concurrently is required. Thorough knowledge of calculus of one variable and vectors plus some mathematical sophistication. The mathematical level will be significantly higher than that of Physics 15a. If in doubt, check the Canvas site ahead of time, or email the professor at hgeorgi@fas.harvard.edu, or just shop.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: General Education
 Empirical and Mathematical Reasoning
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: Core Curriculum
 Science A
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Science & Engineering & Applied Science
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  FAS: General Education
 Science of the Physical Universe
               Physics 90