Polish BB
Intermediate Polish II (160408)
Anna Baranczak
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: None
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
MWF 1000 AM - 1059 AM n/a
Part two of a two part intermediate course in modern Polish language and culture for students with previous study of the language. Further development of vocabulary and oral expression within a comprehensive review of Polish grammar. All four major communicative skills (speaking, listening comprehension, reading, writing) are stressed as students learn to use the language both as a means of communication and as a tool for reading and research. Introduction to Polish literature through fiction and poetry, history and contemporary events, including readings from literary masterpieces from Polish literature from the era of the Renaissance to contemporary times including Jan Kochanowski, Wisława Szymborska, Zbigniew Herbert, Czesław Miłosz and others. Film clips and newspaper articles will introduce students to a variety of styles of contemporary Polish. Systematic study of word formation and other strategies are taught to help free students from excessive dependence on the dictionary and develop confidence in reading.
Intermediate Polish I and Intermediate Polish II together prepare students for continued study of Polish in advanced-level courses and for study or travel abroad in Poland.
Course Notes:
Part one of a two-part series. Students are strongly encouraged to enroll in Polish BA in the fall and Polish BB in the spring within the same academic year.
This course will also meet for an additional hour of speaking practice to be arranged the first week of classes.
See language course notes on the Slavic Department website for
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Recommended Prep:
Additional Course Attributes:
information about sectioning, pass/fail, satisfactory/unsatisfactory, and auditing: https://slavic.fas.harvard.edu/language-course-notes
Polish Ba or placement at the B-level. Familiarity with fundamentals of Polish grammar, particularly case endings and elementary competence in spoken Polish.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 For Undergraduate and Graduate Students
  FAS: Meets Foreign Lang Req
 Polish
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanities
  HCOL: Foreign Lang Citation
 Polish
  Full Year Course
 Divisible Course
                 Polish C