Russian BA
Intermediate Russian I (112823) HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Steven Clancy
2017 Fall (4 Credits) Schedule: MWF 1000 AM - 1059 AM Instructor Permissions: Instructor Enrollment Cap: n/a
Part one of a two part intermediate course in modern Russian language and culture for students with previous study of the language. Further development of vocabulary and oral expression within a comprehensive review of Russian grammar. All four major communicative skills (speaking, listening comprehension, reading, writing) are stressed as students learn to use the language both as a means of communication and as a tool for reading and research. Systematic study of word formation and other strategies are taught to help free students from excessive dependence on the dictionary and develop confidence in reading. Vocabulary is thematically organized to include such topics as self and family, education, work, human relationships, politics, and national attitudes and is reinforced through film and the reading of classical and contemporary fiction and history. Practice in the etiquette of common social situations (sociolinguistic competence). Computer exercises on selected topics.
Course Notes:
Part one of a two-part series. Students are strongly encouraged to enroll in Russian BA in the fall and Russian BB in the spring within the same academic year.
This course will also meet for two additional hours of speaking practice on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Meeting times for the T-Th practice sections are subject to adjustment based on students' availability. See language course notes on the Slavic Department website for information about sectioning, pass/fail, satisfactory/unsatisfactory, and auditing: https://slavic.fas.harvard.edu/language-course-notes
Any full course in Russian at the B-level (Russian Ba-Bb, Russian BTA-BTB, or Intensive Russian BAB) will prepare students for continued study of Russian at the advanced level (Russian 101) and for study or travel abroad in Russian-speaking countries.
Russian AA-AB, AAB, ATA-ATB, AH, or placement at the B-level. Familiarity with fundamentals of Russian grammar, particularly case endings, verb conjugation, and elementary competence in spoken Russian.
Recommended Prep:
Additional Course Attributes:
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanities
  FAS: Meets Foreign Lang Req
 Russian
  HCOL: Foreign Lang Citation
 Russian
  Full Year Course
 Divisible Course
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 For Undergraduate and Graduate Students
               Russian BA