Russian AA Section: 002 Elementary Russian I (122907)
Steven Clancy
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: None
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
MWF 0100 PM - 0159 PM n/a
No prior knowledge of Russian is required.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 For Undergraduate and Graduate Students
  Full Year Course
 Divisible Course
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanities
  FAS: Meets Foreign Lang Req
 Russian
             HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Part one of a two part introductory course in modern Russian language and culture, designed for students without previous knowledge of Russian who would like to speak Russian or use the language for reading and research. All four major communicative skills (speaking, listening comprehension, reading, writing) are stressed. Students are introduced to Russian culture and the etiquette of social exchanges, and expand their knowledge of grammar and vocabulary through readings (including stories, biography, and poetry), videos, and class discussions.
Course Notes:
Part one of a two-part series. Students are strongly encouraged to enroll in Russian AA in the fall and Russian AB in the spring within the same academic year.
This course will also meet for two additional hours of speaking practice on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Meeting times for the T-Th practice sections are subject to adjustment based on students' availability. See language course notes on the Slavic Department website for information about sectioning, pass/fail, satisfactory/unsatisfactory, and auditing: https://slavic.fas.harvard.edu/language-course-notes
Russian AA together with Russian AB or Russian ATB (Elementary Russian through Authentic Texts II) satisfy the foreign language requirement. Any of the elementary (A-level) level Russian courses (A, AAB, and AT) prepare students for continued study of Russian in intermediate (B-level) courses (B, BAB, or BTA) and for study or travel abroad in Russian-speaking countries.
Recommended Prep: Additional Course Attributes:
Russian AA