Science of Physical Universe 26
Finding Our Way (126603)
John Huth
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Instructor
Schedule: MW 0230 PM - 0359 PM
Enrollment Cap: 165
We use the theme of primitive navigation to open the eyes of students to the physical world in a direct and palpable manner. Basic principles include human cognition of physical and mental maps, dead reckoning, direction finding from nature. The course includes the basics of astronomy, including planetary orbits, meteorology, thermodynamics, bird behavior, electromagnetic radiation, optics, waves, tides, ocean currents, and fluid dynamics. Navigational practices of Pacific Islanders, Norse, medieval Arabs, and early western Europeans provide a focus. Some facility with algebra and trigonometry is useful. A series of hands-on projects are employed to understand navigational practices discussed in lecture.
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
Additional Course Attributes:
This course, when taken for a letter grade, meets the General Education requirement for Science of the Physical Universe or Empirical and Mathematical Reasoning, but not both. This course fulfills the requirement that one of the eight General Education courses also engage substantially with Study of the Past.
If student interest exceeds the course limit, a random lottery will be conducted. To enter the lottery, you must add the course to the Study Card and explicitly request enrollment permission when prompted. Instructor permission will be granted to only those admitted by the lottery; all students will be notified of their results. See the course website for more details.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: General Education
 Science of the Physical Universe
  FAS: General Education
 Empirical and Mathematical Reasoning
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: Core Curriculum
 Science A
  FAS: General Education
 Study of the Past
  FAS: Core Curriculum
 Quantitative Reasoning
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
                   Science of Physical Universe 2