Senior Tutorial: Honors Thesis (Mind/Brain/Behavior) (114800)
Danielle Truxaw
2018 Spring (4 Credits) Schedule: Instructor Permissions: Instructor Enrollment Cap:
W 1100 AM - 1159 AM n/a
Individual supervised thesis research supplemented with occasional group meetings to discuss major aspects of the thesis process (e.g., organizing, conducting, and presenting research). Graded Sat/Unsat. Prospectus meeting required for fall term credit, as well as a paper for students who divide course at mid-year. Submission of thesis required for full year credit. Part one of a two part series.
Course Notes: Required of and limited to senior psychology concentrators in the Cognitive Science thesis track, who will take this course in lieu of Psychology 990.
Recommended Prep: Approved thesis application and Psychology 1901. Additional Course Attributes:
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  Full Year Course
 Divisible Course
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Social Sciences
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
           Psychology 992Senior Tutorial: Honors Thesis (Mind/Brain/Behavior) (114800)
Danielle Truxaw
2017 Fall (4 Credits) Schedule: Instructor Permissions: Instructor Enrollment Cap:
W 1100 AM - 1159 AM n/a
Individual supervised thesis research supplemented with occasional group meetings to discuss major aspects of the thesis process (e.g., organizing, conducting, and presenting research). Graded Sat/Unsat. Prospectus meeting required for fall term credit, as well as a paper for students who divide course at mid-year. Submission of thesis required for full year credit. Part one of a two part series.
Course Notes: Required of and limited to senior psychology concentrators in the Cognitive HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Science thesis track, who will take this course in lieu of Psychology 990. Recommended Prep: Approved thesis application and Psychology 1901.
Additional Course Attributes:
Psychology 992