Social Studies 98QK
The Ideal of the Open Mind (205483)
Adam Sandel
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Instructor
Schedule: TBD Enrollment Cap: 10
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Social Sciences
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
         We commonly consider an open mind as essential to fair-minded moral, political, and legal judgment. If you are called for jury duty, for example, you will likely be asked whether you are confident you can judge the case with an open mind. If you answer "no," you will be dismissed from the jury. To have a closed mind is to resist the possibility of persuasion, to be dogmatic, recalcitrant, even bigoted. But what exactly is an open mind?
This course will examine and assess the ideal of the open mind as it has emerged in the Western philosophical tradition. In the first half of the course, we will consider the ideal of detachment and impartiality that emerged during the Enlightenment and remains influential today. In the second half of the course, we will examine various attempts to recast and revive the case for tradition, partial association, and interpretive pre-judgments that emerged in reaction to the Enlightenment, some of which harken back to ancient political thought.
Throughout the course, we will address questions of contemporary relevance, drawn from the realms of law, politics, culture, history, and philosophy. For example: Is an impartial jury the same as a fair jury? Is political
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
rhetoric invariably a form of manipulation and deceit, or is it a way of persuading people by appealing to them from within their own perspectives? Is one's own upbringing and linguistic background a regrettable limitation to the understanding of other cultures, or a resource for mutual understanding? Should we try to understand the past by setting aside our contemporary views and assumptions, or by drawing upon them? In what sense should a liberal arts education aim at cultivating an open mind? This is a junior tutorial.
Additional Course Attributes:
Social Studies 99