Spanish 11 Section: 003 Beginning Spanish II (125058)
Maria Parra-Velasco
2018 Spring (4 Credits) Schedule: MTWR 0900 AM - 0959 AM Instructor Permissions: None Enrollment Cap: n/a
For students with the equivalent of one semester previous study of Spanish. Emphasis on strengthening students' interpersonal, interpretive, and presentational skills in both oral and written Spanish. Hispanic cultures are presented through a variety of authentic texts, including short pieces of literature, essays, and newspaper articles. Music, art, and film are also included. After Spanish Aa and Ab, students should be able to engage in everyday conversations with native speakers, and read straightforward texts, both fiction and non-fiction, with relative ease.
Course Notes:
Recommended Prep:
Additional Course AttributesSpanish 11 Section: 003 Beginning Spanish II (125058)
Maria Celeste Moreno Palmero
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: None
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
MTWR 1000 AM - 1059 AM n/a
Conducted in Spanish. May not be taken Pass/Fail, but may be taken Sat/Unsat by GSAS students. Not open to auditors. Students who have studied Spanish for two years or more in secondary school must begin at Spanish 11 or higher. Upon the recommendation of the course head, students who have performed at a superior level in this course may enroll in any course for which they are linguistically prepared.
This course is taught by members of the Department.
A score between 301-450 on the SAT II test or on the Harvard Placement Test, Spanish Aa/10, or permission of course head.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Meets Foreign Lang Req
 Spanish
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
           For students with the equivalent of one semester previous study of Spanish. Emphasis on strengthening students' interpersonal, interpretive, and presentational skills in both oral and written Spanish. Hispanic cultures are presented through a variety of authentic texts, including short pieces of literature, essays, and newspaper articles. Music, art, and film are also included. After Spanish Aa and Ab, students should be able to engage in everyday conversations with native speakers, and read straightforward texts, both fiction and non-fiction, with relative ease.
Course Notes: Conducted in Spanish. May not be taken Pass/Fail, but may be taken Sat/Unsat by GSAS students. Not open to auditors. Students who have
studied Spanish for two years or more in secondary school must begin at Spanish 11 or higher. Upon the recommendation of the course head,
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Class Notes:
Recommended Prep:
Additional Course Attributes