The Human Factor: How Technology is Transforming Our Everyday Lives for Better and Worse (205021)
Jill Hooley
2017 Fall (4 Credits) Schedule: F 0100 PM - 0259 PM Instructor Permissions: Instructor Enrollment Cap: 16
Can you remember a friend's telephone number off the top of your head? Do you feel comfortable reading a paper map? Could you change a flat tire if you needed to? If the answer to any (if not all) of these questions is no, don't worry. You are not alone. Research shows humans fare poorly on such tasks. But the reasons why may surprise you.The way we think, work and communicate is being transformed by technology. This transformation has been beneficial. For example, personal and professional productivity was often capped due to limits in human attention, memory and decision making. Society could –owing to these 'frailties' –only do, so much. Technology now helps us do more.But its use also raises questions. For example, do we trust technology to much? Is it possible to rely on technology for work and still be good at work? And perhaps most importantly, should society be motivated to work if machines can perform that work more efficiently and safely?This course explores these questions, with a focus on human factors considerations that are relevant for the 21st century work environment.
Class Notes:
Recommended Prep:
For information about the course, e-mail the instructor, Ashley Nunes, at anunes@fas.harvard.edu
The Psychology Department requires completion of Science of Living Systems 20 or the equivalent of introductory psychology (e.g. Psych AP=5 or IB =7 or Psyc S-1) and at least one foundational course from PSY 14, PSY 15, PSY 16, PSY 18 or Science of Living Systems 15 before enrolling
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
Additional Course Attributes:
in this course; or permission of instructor.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Social Sciences
         Psychology 980J