Theater, Dance & Media 181DB
Performance Activism (205032)
Daniel Friedman
2017 Fall (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: Instructor
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
R 0100 PM - 0359 PM 20
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
  FAS: Course Level
 For Undergraduate and Graduate Students
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 Arts and Humanities
         This course investigates the use of performance as a creative response to local and global social problems. We will learn about the theatrical precursors to performance activism (experimental, political and educational theatre), as well as the influence of performative psychology and philosophy on its development, and look at contemporary examples from all over the world. Performance activism is an emergent phenomenon that draws from the humanities and social science, including anthropology, performance studies and performative psychology.
Performance activism embodies a fundamental shift in the way (some) people are working to bring about social change. In the modern era, the dominant modality of social change was confrontation, demonstration and protest. The assumption behind this modality is that conflicting interests can only be overcome by antagonistic struggle. Performance activism embodies a new modality that draws upon the human capacity to play, create and perform.
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 9/4/2017 0:39 AM
The premise is that people—even if and when their economic, social and/or political interests are in conflict—are capable of creating new relationships, new activities and new ways of moving forward together.
The course will examine the growing movement of political and social activists, community and youth organizers, progressive and critical educators and therapists, social workers, medical doctors, organizational consultants and others around the globe who have been turning to performance as a way of engaging social problems, activating communities, and experimenting with new social and political possibilities. The instructor is in contact with scores of performance activists on every continent, some of who will be involved directly, via Skype, in live interviews and conversations with the class. Integrated throughout the course will be performatory exercises and experiments taking place both in class and out, and the students will work with the instructor to create a final performance-based activist project in the community.
Additional Course Attributes:
Theater, Dance & Media 19