Yiddish AB
Elementary Yiddish (159871)
Madeleine Cohen
2018 Spring (4 Credits)
Instructor Permissions: None
Schedule: Enrollment Cap:
MWF 0900 AM - 0959 AM n/a
For students with little or no knowledge of Yiddish. Additional sections at different times may be added as needed. Contact instructor if you have a scheduling conflict. Yiddish AA/AB is an indivisible year-long course. Students must complete both terms of this course (parts A and B) within the same academic year in order to receive credit.
Interested students please email: macohen@fas.harvard.edu No prerequisites; knowledge of Yiddish not assumed.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  FAS: Meets Foreign Lang Req
 Yiddish
  Full Year Course
 Indivisible Course
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  FAS: Course Level
 For Undergraduate and Graduate Students
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Available for Harvard Cross Registration
             Continuation of Yiddish AA. Introduction to Yiddish language, literature, and culture. In the course of the year, students will acquire a thorough grounding in Yiddish grammar and will develop strong foundational reading, writing, speaking, and comprehension skills. The course will introduce students to the 1000-year history of Yiddish culture in Eastern Europe, the United States, and around the world. Students will learn about the past and present of this culture through exposure to Yiddish literature, music, theater, film, radio, oral history, and the Yiddish internet—an introduction to the dynamic world of Yiddish culture and scholarship that exists today. Students must complete both terms of this course (parts A and B) within the same academic year in order to receive credit.
Course Notes:
Class Notes:
Recommended Prep: Additional Course Attributes:
For students with little or no knowledge of Yiddish. Additional sections at different times may be added as needed. Yiddish AA/AB is an indivisible year-long course. Students must complete both terms of this course (parts A and B) within the same academic year in order to receive credit.
Interested students please email: nelc@fas.harvard.edu No prerequisites.
   Attribute
 Value(s)
  All: Cross Reg Availability
 Not Available for Cross Registration
  FAS Divisional Distribution
 None
  Course Search Attributes
 Display Only in Course Search
  Full Year Course
 Indivisible Course
          HARVARD UNIVERSITY
9/4/2017 0:39 AM
   FAS: Course Level
 Primarily for Undergraduate Students
  Yiddish B